As a rule, he never left his shop.
You know about chemistry and things of that kind.
He had led the orgies at Carlton House.
He felt strangely calm, and walking over to the window, opened it and stepped out on the balcony.
What more can one want?
You were to me such an ideal as I shall never meet again.
If you don't help me, I will send it.
You deserve it all.
As the door was closing behind him, he called him back.
I mean everything that I have said.
You must come and dine with me, and afterwards we will look in at the opera.
Of course, our engagement is a dead secret.
There was something of the fawn in her shy grace and startled eyes.
Perhaps the signs of evil had already gone away.
But it is all right now.
No one could see it.
If the picture was to alter, it was to alter.
There is something unfair about its use.
As he looked back upon man moving through history, he was haunted by a feeling of loss.
Surely the world would know his secret then.
I find him in the curves of certain lines, in the loveliness and subtleties of certain colours.
She breathed more freely, and for the first time for many months she really admired her son.
Lord Gloucester was one of my greatest friends at Oxford.
After the performance was over, I went behind and spoke to her.
Basil Hallward had left the house at eleven.
Alan, you are scientific.
We won't quarrel.
Well, she made it out of nothing.
It annihilates the desire to act.
Basil was really rather dull.
The portrait will only be away a month.
My heart shall never be put under their microscope.
I want to escape, to go away, to forget.
Why, the man did not know who he was, could not know who he was.
Nothing that he could do would cleanse him till he had told his own sin.
A curious sensation of terror came over me.
Just before you came I almost fainted with terror.
Its blue eyes met his own.
When you met Lady Gwendolen, not a breath of scandal had ever touched her.
You had made me understand what love really is.
Suddenly there had fallen upon his brain that tiny scarlet speck that makes men mad.
The room is damp.
The sitter is merely the accident, the occasion.
As a rule, people who act lead the most commonplace lives.
Can they be true?
When I am painting, I can't think of anything else.
He offered an extravagant price.
I am sorry you won't let me look at the picture once again.
Every second he kept glancing at the clock.
The passion for property is in it.
Sibyl, however, was quite unconscious of the effect she was producing.
I will never mention your name.
They don't interest me.
then it must be an illusion.
It was the portrait that had done everything.
They gave the address in the paper.
He sighed and told her to manage things as she thought best.
What was it separated you?
The prayer of your repentance will be answered also.
Your aunt was quite right in what she said of him.
With subtle and finely wrought temperaments it is always so.
If we women did not love you for your defects, where would you all be?
You didn't see anything else in the picture, did you?
It is in the brain, and the brain only, that the great sins of the world take place also.
For every sin that he committed, a stain would fleck and wreck its fairness.
Don't you understand?
You are dining out, I suppose?
It was a sigh of relief.
No; she had died for love of him, and love would always be a sacrament to him now.
He waited for a moment, still pressing the head down.
I don't think I am heartless.
What a pity it was that such beauty was destined to fade!
Campbell felt dominated by him.
It was pretty of her.
He could be made a Titan or a toy.
Came from Fonthill, I believe.
A triangular drawer passed slowly out.
He saw them at night, and they troubled his imagination in the day.
The room looked as if it had not been lived in for years.
He was not so finely bred as his sister.
Others crowded round the swinging doors of the coffee-house in the piazza.
It would make him smile. And, yet, how vivid was his recollection of the whole thing!
Let me look at it.
Her eyes wandered vaguely about the room.
It is so sombre, so depressing.
You shrug your shoulders?
You have no idea what it was.
Besides, what do you know of this young man?
There are exquisite things in store for you.
When they took lovers, it was merely to have some one with whom they could have scenes.
But who drove him to it?
It makes me too romantic.
You used to be a friend of Lord Staveley.
You will see her name on the door.
It has its divine right of sovereignty.
But music was not articulate.
Her body swayed, while she danced, as a plant sways in the water.
The death of Basil Hallward seemed very little to him.
It was after five o'clock, and Sibyl had to lie down for a couple of hours before acting.
When the picture was finished, and I sat alone with it, I felt that I was right....
I had a strange feeling that fate had in store for me exquisite joys and exquisite sorrows.
to see him is perfect happiness.
I must find you a nice wife.
Something seemed to tell me that I was on the verge of a terrible crisis in my life.
A grande passion is the privilege of people who have nothing to do.
When he stepped out on to the grass, he drew a deep breath.
I believe I was at her christening.
There was pity in her eyes that became laughter on her lips.
He could not help liking the tall, graceful young man who was standing by him.
But an actress!
Dorian Gray had been poisoned by a book.
The girl was standing there alone, with a look of triumph on her face.
Picked it up at a sale.
Because, while I was painting it, Dorian Gray sat beside me.
There was purification in punishment.
Did I teach the one his vices, and the other his debauchery?
No artist is ever morbid.
It is not my business.
Then she laughed and put her hand on his arm.
What was he doing there?
Mildew has got into the canvas.
But you must come and sit to me yourself again.
Perhaps it is that they are foreigners.
They were what he needed for forgetfulness.
How ugly it all was!
I don't know whether it is so or not.
I cannot understand how any one can wish to shame the thing he loves.
She spoke of me as her dearest friend.
‘Lead us not into temptation.
Destiny does not send us heralds.
How pleasant it was in the garden!
In one of the top-windows stood a lamp.
Nothing remains then but the recollection of a pleasure, or the luxury of a regret.
But you are quite right, Dorian.
One felt that he had kept himself unspotted from the world.
Life has been your art.
James's Gazette had been placed on the tea-tray.
The star of the Garter glittered upon his breast.
Dorian Gray loathed him more than ever.
I don't think I have ever seen it since he finished it.
But we never get back our youth.
What a state she must be in!
Her head drooped.
When critics disagree, the artist is in accord with himself.
Dorian lit a cigarette and walked over to the glass and glanced into it.
She had swallowed something by mistake, some dreadful thing they use at theatres.
How heavy this chest is! I'll take it for you.
It is marvellously romantic.
You can have the evening to yourself.
He was not clever enough to have enemies.
All I say is, watch over Sibyl.
I should not be sorry to see you disgraced, publicly disgraced.
He was puzzled and anxious. Neither of his friends dared to say anything to him.
She is too wise or too cruel for that.
Was it to alter now with every mood to which he yielded?
The loves and sorrows that are great are destroyed by their own plenitude.
It was a horrible thing to have a spy in one's house.
When a woman marries again, it is because she detested her first husband.
Why do you ask?
The very sharpness of the contrast used to quicken his sense of pleasure.
Gray, I assure you.
At present you are a perfect type. Don't make yourself incomplete.
He is sitting at the table with bowed head and outstretched arms.
You simply produce no effect.
the women were wonderful. Carlington went on his knees to her.
They commit one mistake, however.
You talk as if you had no heart, no pity in you.
I know you are surprised at my talking to you like this.
They weep and laugh as she wills them to do.
She trembled all over and shook like a white narcissus.
I should think you could easily spare it for that time.
Or stay: just leave my things out for dressing.
I entirely decline to be mixed up in your life.
The peril was over.
Beside him hung the portrait of his wife, a pallid, thin-lipped woman in black.
She is beautiful.
if you only knew what Dorian Gray is to me!
He was safe for the time.
I always want to forget what I have been doing.
It is quite dreadful, but it only lasts for about five minutes.
And there is worse behind.
Where shall we go?
He was withered, wrinkled, and loathsome of visage.
He spoke with slow deliberation.
I am sick of them.
The aim of life is self-development.
The mellow November sun came streaming into the room.
He does not think his natural thoughts, or burn with his natural passions.
I cannot help telling you things. You have a curious influence over me.
Come, I tell you.
Of course, you would have treated her kindly.
They lived on their emotions.
But inferior poets are absolutely fascinating.
Of course, I have done all that.
It might escape the hideousness of sin, but the hideousness of age was in store for it.
They love being dominated.
He knew the precise psychological moment when to say nothing.
There was something in the shape of his fingers that I hated.
One knows their minds as easily as one knows their bonnets.
Forgive us our sins.
Dorian took the note up and read it carefully.
You don't know what you were to me, once.
I forget what killed it.
He was your father, and a gentleman.
Indeed, at the present moment he is supposed to be in Paris.
Her little feet pattered overhead. He walked up and down the room two or three times.
You have come to the wrong man.
Why had he kept it so long?
A harsh word would ruin it.
One could hear her singing as she ran upstairs.
If it was not true, why trouble about it?
Look at the matter purely from the scientific point of view.
Let us fix to-morrow.
And how pretty she had been in her cotton dresses and her large hats!
Now, wherever you go, you charm the world.
This young man might be rich.
A red glare came from an outward-bound steamer that was coaling.
As Dorian hurried up its three rickety steps, the heavy odour of opium met him.
A visit to Treadley would be a great privilege.
And now good-bye, Dorian.
How little you can know of love, if you say it mars your art!
A verdict of death by misadventure was returned.
I am quite sure that I loved her.
The sunlight slipped over the polished leaves.
He remembered it as if it had been the lash of a hunting-crop across his face.
There was no reason that the future should be so full of shame.
People will some day, however.
Others find a great consolation in suddenly discovering the good qualities of their husbands.
I would sooner not.
That could not be denied.
You can't feel what I feel.
Who wants happiness?
At any rate, I determined to wait for the first act.
Nobody ever commits a crime without doing something stupid.
As soon as he got behind him, he seized it and turned round.
Or had his choice already been made?
And it was certainly stupid of him to have marked it with red pencil.
But, as I was saying, you must not think I have not suffered.
One should never do anything that one cannot talk about after dinner.
What of George Willoughby, with his powdered hair and fantastic patches?
It would have made me in love with love for the rest of my life.
In fact, you are sure to be out of town.
Oh, if it were only the other way!
You must tell me what people you would like to meet, though.
The scarlet would pass away from his lips and the gold steal from his hair.
He had always the look of one who had kept himself unspotted from the world.
It is superbly sterile.
You can come to my sister's box.
He felt that the secret of the whole thing was not to realize the situation.
So much had been surrendered!
Rouge and esprit used to go together.
He himself would not see it.
Yes, it was his duty to do so.
He is going to be there, and I am to play Juliet.
But I hear they let them in now by examination.
Don't let her come to any harm.
He almost dreaded his valet leaving the room.
It was of himself, and of his own future, that he had to think.
To test reality we must see it on the tight rope.
How like a sympathetic person!
Surely it was not still so horrible as it had been?
I grew jealous of every one to whom you spoke.
It held the secret of his life, and told his story.
They flaunt their conjugal felicity in one's face, as if it were the most fascinating of sins.
How horribly late!
He thrust her back.
The people round began to gape.
They moved like monstrous marionettes and made gestures like live things.
You mustn't say these dreadful things. Hetty's heart is not broken.
But you are going to help me.
I don't know which to follow.
I will give you anything you like to ask for it.
I forgot that I was in London and in the nineteenth century.
No line like that warped his red lips.
I shan't go upstairs.
She did not listen.
He hesitated for a moment, then he turned back and took it from the table.
don't go away from me. My brother ...
I see now that you were right.
Don't laugh like that.
One evening she is Rosalind, and the next evening she is Imogen.
Or would you like hock-and-seltzer?
They never have anything to say, but they say it charmingly.
I think it was her proposing to sacrifice the whole world for me.
The purple spilled from the cup she was holding.
It was already waning.
You might see nothing in him.
Conscience makes egotists of us all.
What did you mean by that?
He had hateful memories of him.
The lodging-house drudge bustled in and out.
And what is Ferrol like?
It will never be older than this particular day of June....
To play for his delight!
There is nothing like it.
What a fearful thing it is! And what an utter intellectual stagnation it reveals!
It does not seem to me to be at all probable.
We kissed each other.
A beautiful woman risking everything for a mad passion.
Taking some one else's admirer when one loses one's own.
He was trembling from head to foot.
And this was certainly true.
What absurd fellows you are, both of you!
Let it be for good, not for evil.
I think we were both rather nervous.
He had chosen to do it.
One should sympathize with the colour, the beauty, the joy of life.
Till I have my first wrinkle, I suppose.
Every gentleman is interested in his good name.
She lived her finest tragedy.
The sky was bright, and there was a genial warmth in the air.
It struck me as being rather dramatic.
What sort of life has he got now?
The world has cried out against us both, but it has always worshipped you.
You are the one man who is able to save me.
But for those two things, his life might have been free from stain.
I have just got a beauty of a frame, sir.
Each man lived his own life and paid his own price for living it.
You will become sallow, and hollow-cheeked, and dull-eyed.
Women with hoarse voices and harsh laughter had called after him.
Youth is the only thing worth having.
How should I know?
I am told things that it seems impossible to doubt.
And you will promise to talk to me all the time?
In the farthest stable a light was glimmering.
You come down here to console me.
Everything was still.
I had forgotten that.
A cigarette is the perfect type of a perfect pleasure.
Perhaps it might be missed by his servant, and questions would be asked.
I swore I would kill you in return.
I didn't dare show my face at Court for a month.
What matter what the cost was?
But here was a visible symbol of the degradation of sin.
His mere presence seemed to recall to them the memory of the innocence that they had tarnished.
Or shall we lunch with our little duchess?
She is really wonderful, and full of surprises.
He stopped several times and waited.
You should have come on there.
They made a delightful contrast.
In the common world of fact the wicked were not punished, nor the good rewarded.
All the Selby property came to her, through her grandfather.
There was an exquisite poison in the air.
But he always made an exception in favour of Dorian Gray.
They have been very fortunate lately, however.
Every month as it wanes brings you nearer to something dreadful.
How could I admire her?
There was something about Dorian that charmed everybody.
You laugh, but I tell you she has genius.
Even those that are born in England become foreigners after a time, don't they?
As for Alan Campbell, his suicide had been his own act.
I should fancy, however, that murder is always a mistake.
Dorian Gray to give up the East End?
Will it always be so?
I felt, Dorian, that I had told too much, that I had put too much of myself into it.
She has not even told her own mother.
You remind me of the day I saw you first.
That makes no matter.
Women treat us just as humanity treats its gods.
See paragraph 1.E below. 1.C.
But it was too late now.
I met Lady Gwendolen, Harry's sister, for the first time.
Perhaps you are tired of Gladys?
What can you expect?
She said that he was very earnest and had a beautiful nature.
There was a horrible smell of nitric acid in the room.
The wretched peasant who has just died is better off than I am.
The books that the world calls immoral are books that show the world its own shame. That is all.
There is something to me quite beautiful about her death.
People talk sometimes of secret vices. There are no such things.
Why do you talk of it?
But I am sorry they told you about the man.
Behind every exquisite thing that existed, there was something tragic.
We have quite the same ideas.
I have no terror of death.
She regarded me merely as a person in a play.
She is waiting for you to charm her, and if you play she will come closer to the earth.
Good-bye, Harry.
I came in at half-past two, if you wish to know the exact time.
When you and he ceased to be great friends, he ceased to be a great artist.
Nothing has been hidden from you.
Write to me when you are coming.
Basil had painted the portrait that had marred his life.
You don't, but it is nice of you to pretend that you do.
She would have done that for me.
His dominant intellectual passion was for science.
It was the most premature definition ever given.
A man who is master of himself can end a sorrow as easily as he can invent a pleasure.
The horrible night that he had passed had left phantoms behind it.
I am jealous of the portrait you have painted of me.
That may be so, but at least it is not so superficial as thought is.
I have grown sick of shadows.
I wish I could change places with you, Dorian.
I will have nothing to do with this matter, whatever it is.
It was not nervousness.
The duchess stood motionless in horror.
He felt as if he had come to look for Miranda and had been met by Caliban.
It was the imagination that made each crime bear its misshapen brood.
Civilization is not by any means an easy thing to attain to.
No other activity was like it.
She had marred him for a moment, if he had wounded her for an age.
I think that is their distinguishing characteristic.
There was something in your touch that was wonderful.
Sit down again, Harry.
Life suddenly became fiery-coloured to him.
His eye fell on it.
It belongs to Nature, not to me.
His soul, certainly, was sick to death.
For these there is hope.
He knew what it was.
But she would have soon found out that you were absolutely indifferent to her.
How lovely that thing you are playing is!
Of course, she cried and all that.
My one quarrel is with words.
You see, I shan't have any delay about luggage, as I have sent on my heavy things.
I am going to alter.
She overemphasized everything that she had to say.
The plain women are very useful.
And, yet, what was there to be afraid of?
From a psychological point of view, how interesting he was!
Hallward amused himself with watching the faces in the pit.
I am what I am.
You have known nearly everybody in your time, so you might have known her.
He drew them away, and a shudder ran through him. Then he leaped up and went to the door.
With such blood as he has in his veins, how could his record be clean?
Here and there a lantern gleamed at the stern of some huge merchantman.
He had been selfish and cruel to her.
You are certain to acknowledge her genius.
It came so suddenly across me, my love for you.
I worshipped you too much.
In Dorian's there was infinite pity.
But the artistic temperament that they create, or at any rate reveal, is still more to me.
In three days he would be free. Suddenly the man drew up with a jerk at the top of a dark lane.
I see things differently, I think of them differently.
From the point of view of form, the type of all the arts is the art of the musician.
Gray is ill again.
He had cleaned it many times, till there was no stain left upon it.
Death walked there in the sunlight.
It is impossible for you to refuse now.
He was such a monster.
I am not going to quarrel with you.
Besides, it is no use.
If you tell me that they are absolutely untrue from beginning to end, I shall believe you.
I wish I had now.
People say sometimes that beauty is only superficial.
Beneath its purple pall, the face painted on the canvas could grow bestial, sodden, and unclean.
What on earth induced her to behave as she did, I never could understand.
Her feet are very pretty, but they are not feet of clay. White porcelain feet, if you like.
If we have enough of them, they will forgive us everything, even our intellects.
She was familiar with the atmosphere.
He would go back to Sibyl Vane, make her amends, marry her, try to love her again.
It is not fit for you to see, sir.
I assure you he would be quite invaluable.
Dorian recognized him.
That is the second time you have made that observation.
He turned and looked at Dorian Gray with the eyes of a sick man.
A faint echo of his love came back to him.
I suppose he wants to ask you what flowers you wish to have on the table to-night.
There was an ugly story about it.
The secret of remaining young is never to have an emotion that is unbecoming.
He struck at the horse madly with his stick.
And how horribly real ugliness made things!
She shook her head at him.
It was a confession.
I can't tell you how heart-broken I am about the whole thing.
Browning writes about that somewhere; but our own senses will imagine them for us.
I didn't hear what Harry said.
There is something terribly morbid in the modern sympathy with pain.
She laughed at him, and there wasn't a girl in London at the time who wasn't after him.
I grew afraid that others would know of my idolatry.
An alliterative prefix served as an ornament of oratory.
For days after I met you, something seemed to throb in my veins.
He made no answer, but sat down to his meagre meal.
Even Harry, who was here, who brought me the news, in fact, had no idea what I was going through.
They either slay the man, or themselves die.
It is the divinest thing in us.
The garnet cast out demons, and the hydropicus deprived the moon of her colour.
I am sorry if I hurt your vanity by saying so, but I assure you it is true.
She had been playing Rosalind.
You are a wonderful creation.
How long will you like me?
There are no temptations there.
You were stern, harsh, offensive.
How different Sibyl was!
What did it mean? He rubbed his eyes, and came close to the picture, and examined it again.
It might be a most brilliant marriage for Sibyl.
It was simply inevitable.
But the world might guess it, and I will not bare my soul to their shallow prying eyes.
I forget what I did....
To give himself up and be put to death?
I feel proud, terribly proud.
The folk don't like to have that sort of thing in their houses.
Finally he succeeded, and nothing could exceed his disappointment.
The world had looked upon him as infamous.
It is exquisite, and it leaves one unsatisfied.
But it only pains you because you loved him so much.
He could not forgive him that.
It has had that excellent effect, amongst others.
There is something of the martyr about her.
Vice and virtue are to the artist materials for an art.
It seemed to him that misfortune followed wherever he went.
Was he always to be burdened by his past?
A great poet, a really great poet, is the most unpoetical of all creatures.
He was brilliant, fantastic, irresponsible.
Music had troubled him many times.
We have emancipated them, but they remain slaves looking for their masters, all the same.
In a few moments they emerged, dragging a body after them into the sunlight.
She was always a heroine.
It is like surrendering a part of them.
Let us go to the club, then. It has been a charming evening, and we must end it charmingly.
There had been something more.
Oh, yes, I remember.
What if Alan Campbell should be out of England?
The surface seemed to be quite undisturbed and as he had left it.
This young dandy who was making love to her could mean her no good.
I thought you must have some curious romance on hand.
Nothing will induce me to stir a step to help you.
She was everything to me.
The hideous hunger for opium began to gnaw at him.
At least, I can't believe them when I see you.
It had been like conscience to him.
It is the coming of death that terrifies me.
But you should not say the greatest romance of your life.
You have spoiled the romance of my life.
His eyes darkened, and the crowded flaring streets became blurred to his eyes.
I don't know what my guardians will say.
If one doesn't talk about a thing, it has never happened.
Examinations, sir, are pure humbug from beginning to end.
A strange sense of loss came over him.
Her eyes were lit with an exquisite fire.
What odd chaps you painters are!
You must have overtired yourself.
Suddenly a wild hope flashed across his brain.
He passed his hand across his forehead.
He would be able to follow his mind into its secret places.
Don't speak against him, my son.
She is very clever, too clever for a woman.
It is pure unadulterated country life.
Tell one of the grooms to bring my horse round.
Leaden with fear, his mother watched him.
Regret, denial, or forgetfulness could do that.
He is the last Lord Kelso's grandson.
He was afraid of certainty.
No one would ever look upon the horrible thing.
The man stood waiting for his orders.
Her shallow secret nature was troubled when their eyes met.
And he had such a beautiful voice.
Now if Geoffrey had done the thing on purpose, how interesting he would be!
Our limbs fail, our senses rot.
I don't offer any explanation, and you are not to ask for any.
I do want to preach to you.
Richard II had a coat, valued at thirty thousand marks, which was covered with balas rubies.
That was enough. Then he remembered the lamp.
The soul is a terrible reality.
He said that he would sooner part with her when their mother was not present.
They got restless, and began to talk loudly and to whistle.
Women who hate one are much more interesting.
It seemed to me to have lost something.
I shall see you before nine-thirty, I hope.
I am sorry I told you now.
I am punished for it.
The heavy odour of incense seemed to cling about its pages and to trouble the brain.
It has not marred you.
You must not think of anything but your acting.
In black fantastic shapes, dumb shadows crawl into the corners of the room and crouch there.
The crimson spot of a prowling hansom gleamed at the corner and then vanished.
After some time he came back.
You were rather cheeky, very shy, and absolutely extraordinary.
It seemed to me that all my life had been narrowed to one perfect point of rose-coloured joy.
And yet I must admit that this thing that has happened does not affect me as it should.
That was when acting was really understood.
Ugliness was the one reality.
They ultimately found her lying dead on the floor of her dressing-room.
It is on the grand tier.
Your picture has taught me that.
I congratulate you on it.
When I first heard them, I laughed.
What the worm was to the corpse, his sins would be to the painted image on the canvas.
I shall grow old, and horrible, and dreadful.
It was an ill-omened place.
It merely intensifies it.
You are simply jealous and unkind.
He did not even glance at the murdered man.
I don't care what shame comes on you.
I don't want to see him alone.
There was something in his low languid voice that was absolutely fascinating.
Then she had disappointed him.
Basil, you must go.
The arrows of craft shot by her.
We were quite close, almost touching.
Once or twice he thought of going away. At last he heard a step outside, and the door opened.
Don't be so serious.
The fresh morning air seemed to drive away all his sombre passions.
It was the living death of his own soul that troubled him.
He could not help seeing the dead thing.
Do you think this girl will ever be really content now with any one of her own rank?
Yesterday I cut an orchid, for my button-hole.
Its gold would wither into grey.
If they know nothing of victory, they are at least spared the knowledge of defeat.
It is because I know everything about his life, not because he knows anything about mine.
We have lost the abstract sense of beauty.
Its red and white roses would die.
What had Dorian Gray to do with Sibyl Vane's death? There was nothing to fear.
But it was not merely the physical conditions of environment that had caused the change.
From time to time a huge misshapen cloud stretched a long arm across and hid it.
All art is at once surface and symbol.
After a few minutes, they all passed downstairs.
Did you advertise for it?
With his curious reserved habits, it would be months before any suspicions would be roused.
I don't know what made me say it.
There had been nothing more.
The crisp frost lay like salt upon the grass.
You led them there.
Surely not, my dear fellow?
As soon as you have one, you seem to want to throw it away.
He is not like other men.
The bushrangers were to attack them three times, and be defeated with immense slaughter.
Don't you like the name.
Dorian Gray changed his seat and went and sat by Lord Henry.
You had much better let me have it, Basil.
The portrait must be hidden away at all costs.
You have not realized how I have developed.
He frowned and bit his lip.
I'll have it off the bunch in a moment.
You gave her good advice and broke her heart.
I have always you to look at.
Its mere memory had marred many moments of joy.
There the satinwood book-case filled with his dog-eared schoolbooks.
His life was well worth hers.
But I did not mind that.
It seems years ago to me now.
The sky was an inverted cup of blue metal.
Ask him to stay.
Perhaps you had better write to him.
I am amazed sometimes at my own sincerity. Ah, Dorian, how happy you are!
Shall you see Basil between this and then?
He placed his foot on it and put it out.
Of course, I knew that was impossible.
Its monstrous wings seem to wheel in the leaden air around me.
Hour by hour, and week by week, the thing upon the canvas was growing old.
It is only shallow people who do not judge by appearances.
It is the uncertainty that charms one.
Now, I don't know what has come over you.
As for Sibyl, I do not know at present whether her attachment is serious or not.
But I know that you are better than he is.
Half of the audience went out, tramping in heavy boots and laughing.
He was really very devoted to me and seemed quite sorry when he went away.
He opened the door and went out on the landing.
Or, perhaps, all these?
It is the only way I get to know of them.
Talking to him was like playing upon an exquisite violin.
Lord Henry, upon the other hand, rather liked him.
That is the reason I hate vulgar realism in literature.
A cry of pain and indignation broke from him.
You would not believe that you were doing anything wrong.
There was neither real sorrow in it nor real joy.
You have been the one person in my life who has really influenced my art.
James Vane was hidden in a nameless grave in Selby churchyard.
But what the gods give they quickly take away.
Never saw him before.
Fancy, Jim, to be in love and play Juliet!
Was there no hope for him? Ah!
What does that matter?
That was something.
Vane, taking up a tawdry theatrical dress, with a sigh, and beginning to patch it.
Let me in at once.
You would not have understood it.
Art has no influence upon action.
He himself had burned what had been below-stairs.
The voice was exquisite, but from the point of view of tone it was absolutely false.
He did not know what to do, or what to think.
As it had revealed to him his own body, so it would reveal to him his own soul.
Good-bye, Lord Henry, you are quite delightful and dreadfully demoralizing.
That is what the world calls a romance.
She explained it all to me.
The girl never really lived, and so she has never really died.
Besides, women were better suited to bear sorrow than men.
The warm air seemed laden with spices.
I am no more to you than a green bronze figure.
You know yourself, Harry, how independent I am by nature.
Of course, I never let you know anything about this.
Yes: I should fancy that was his end.
The thing has to be done.
He got up and looked out into the street.
Then he drew the screen aside and saw himself face to face.
Perhaps one never seems so much at one's ease as when one has to play a part.
It always means that they have a history.
He followed her doggedly as she passed through the crowd.
They have become stout and tedious, and when I meet them, they go in at once for reminiscences.
On a table by her side lay a mandolin and an apple.
One could not escape from them. And yet what a subtle magic there was in them!
Harry, I am quite vexed with you.
I have a great mind to chuck the whole thing up.
I have not read it yet, Harry.
Strange, that my first passionate love-letter should have been addressed to a dead girl.
Don't forget about to-morrow.
She cleft the dusky air like an arrow.
Or was there some other, more terrible reason?
I see by The Standard that she was seventeen.
When she came on in her boy's clothes, she was perfectly wonderful.
I do it on principle.
I should have shown myself more of an artist.
He seized the thing, and stabbed the picture with it. There was a cry heard, and a crash.
Who could say where the fleshly impulse ceased, or the psychical impulse began?
No one had seen him come in again.
It seems to me to be simply like a wonderful ending to a wonderful play.
Come to the club with Basil and myself.
Her death is at your door.
Your portrait of him has quickened his appreciation of the personal appearance of other people.
Sometimes, however, a tragedy that possesses artistic elements of beauty crosses our lives.
Can they feel, I wonder, those white silent people we call the dead?
You are more to me than all art can ever be.
Mind you, I don't believe these rumours at all.
The other women are very charming.
Then the intimacy had come suddenly to an end.
We were in her box.
His romantic, olive-coloured face and worn expression interested him.
He had the key, and no one else could enter it.
The colours faded wearily out of things. After some time Dorian Gray looked up.
Women have no appreciation of good looks; at least, good women have not.
He made no answer.
They affect us just as vulgarity affects us.
You have only a few years in which to live really, perfectly, and fully.
I am too much concentrated on myself.
When he had been away, he had been filled with terror lest other eyes should look upon it.
The common hill-flowers wither, but they blossom again.
I want music to-night.
From the point of view of feeling, the actor's craft is the type.
The driver laughed and whipped up.
I came here at once and was miserable at not finding you.
Don't be cruel to me, because I love you better than anything in the world.
A white-smocked carter offered him some cherries.
It made the passion unreal. Dorian Gray grew pale as he watched her.
How curious it all seemed!
He could not run such a risk of discovery again.
The next time he calls, you will be perfectly cold and indifferent.
Yes, it was for the long palette-knife, with its thin blade of lithe steel.
I have not laid eyes on him for a week.
As for being poisoned by a book, there is no such thing as that.
There is a luxury in self-reproach.
Prince of life!
It was vividly and dramatically expressed.
The hand upon his shoulder weighed like a hand of lead. It was intolerable.
Don't leave me, Basil, and don't quarrel with me.
This one is little more than a boy.
Days would elapse before he could come back.
He will not be missed for months.
How still it was!
That is the fatality of faith, and the lesson of romance.
I will have absolutely nothing to do with it.
It is a Patti night, and everybody will be there.
Curious stories became current about him after he had passed his twenty-fifth year.
When he is missed, there must be no trace of him found here.
Can't you see what I am going through?
It is part of myself.
I thought that it was all true.
Erskine, an absolutely reasonable people.
The Jew manager, who was standing at the back of the dress-circle, stamped and swore with rage.
Except, of course, in middle-class life.
I was thinking chiefly of flowers.
There is something of a child about her.
How little he knew of the true reason!
He is not of age yet.
Good God, Dorian, is that what you have come to?
Was the face on the canvas viler than before?
He was so unlike Basil.
At this moment, the door opened and a young lad with rough brown hair came into the room.
It is simply disgraceful of your servant hiding my work like that.
At least he thought so.
I want a man's life.
What did it matter?
It was merely the name men gave to their mistakes.
There was a look of contempt in the steady searching gaze that he turned on Dorian.
You are in some trouble.
If the thing was true, it was terrible.
But I never really liked it. I am sorry I sat for it.
Women are a decorative sex.
It belonged to Basil's best period.
You don't know the danger I am in, and there is nothing to keep me straight.
It has been a marvellous experience.
I suppose he bored you.
Every impulse that we strive to strangle broods in the mind and poisons us.
Besides, Dorian, don't deceive yourself.
it was really a masterpiece.
There was so much in you that charmed me that I felt I must tell you something about yourself.
This portrait would be to him the most magical of mirrors.
Its very horror made him stone. At last the door opened and his servant entered.
Then she flung herself on her knees and kissed my hands.
He lit a cigarette and then threw it away.
But that was all.
With your personality there is nothing you could not do.
If it were I who was to be always young, and the picture that was to grow old!
You know I am not a champion of marriage.
How extraordinarily dramatic life is!
You must wake me at nine to-morrow.
You must tell me some other time.
Not, however, that that would alter you much.
Leaf was crying and wringing her hands.
You must let me introduce myself.
He felt that he had a right to know.
He had made him premature.
I smoke a great deal too much.
It always will worship you.
Good-bye, Dorian.
She seemed to them to be absolutely incompetent.
She remembered the phrase. It had pleased her.
Yes; there is really no end to the consolations that women find in modern life.
It was not conscience that made me do so: it was a sort of cowardice.
I said he was engaged to be married.
The play dragged on, and seemed interminable.
And, yet, what a great reward one received! How wonderful the whole world became to one!
His hands were clenched, and the pupils of his eyes were like disks of blue fire.
Suddenly it dawned on my soul what it all meant.
You must come and dine with us some night.
Was it true that the senses could cure it?
I am sure I never can make out what you are talking about.
He remembered something like it in history.
Every moment of his lonely childhood came back to him as he looked round.
What about your country-house and the life that is led there?
It has nothing to do with our own will.
From him, at any rate, he was safe.
Form is absolutely essential to it.
But don't ask me to read anything to-night.
I remember the whole thing as if it happened yesterday.
I worshipped you.
Was he really to confess?
The gas-lamps grew fewer, and the streets more narrow and gloomy.
Chapman got up solemnly from the foot of the table and came up to the top.
One often imagines things that are quite absurd.
You need not shake your head: you know you are.
George doesn't speak to me either....
Your influence would be bad.
Whether or not a quarrel had taken place between them no one ever knew.
And you must not say these extravagant things to me.
There was something in his face that made one trust him at once.
The picture had not changed.
We have had such a pleasant chat about music.
Why had such a soul been given to him?
It bolted for a thicket of alders.
The smell of the singeing clothes and burning leather was horrible.
I walked about.
The knowledge was exquisite to me.
He rushed out as if in pursuit. Dorian Gray hurried along the quay through the drizzling rain.
He would destroy it.
Her death has all the pathetic uselessness of martyrdom, all its wasted beauty.
He guffawed at his adversaries.
Plate after plate went away untasted.
No gentleman dines before seven.
She had been shallow and unworthy.
I am awfully sorry for you, Alan.
I want you to explain to me why you won't exhibit Dorian Gray's picture.
Three of them bored him.
Had she cursed him, as she died?
What an extraordinary piece of luck!
People are afraid of themselves, nowadays.
What could atone for that?
He hesitated for a moment, and then put it aside.
We must be there before the curtain rises.
Things that were dangerous had to be destroyed.
I couldn't be happy if I didn't see him every day.
That is charming of you.
He says things that annoy me.
I am bound to state that she ate an enormous dinner, so I did not feel any anxiety.
You have everything in the world that a man can want.
It is an odd thing, but every one who disappears is said to be seen at San Francisco.
You left before eleven. What did you do afterwards?
This is kind of you.
The whole thing was a fiasco.
But he still watched the cabinet.
He atones for being occasionally somewhat overdressed by being always absolutely over-educated.
And you are awfully unjust, Basil.
Their voices were horribly shrill and discordant.
Came to Madrid once when I was there.
You have filled them with a madness for pleasure.
I wrote down to you to ask you not to see any one till I came.
They lack individuality.
Suddenly we find that we are no longer the actors, but the spectators of the play.
To-day is Tuesday.
She had no right to kill herself.
She knows nothing of life.
My lips moved towards hers.
Of late he had felt no such pleasure.
But this picture will remain always young.
Had he been cruel?
What was it, he wondered.
Yes, he remembered it perfectly.
Besides, without my stirring in the matter, you are certain to be arrested.
Would he ever look at it again? No; it was merely an illusion wrought on the troubled senses.
Most of the servants were at Selby Royal.
He must have died almost instantaneously.
A look of joy came into his eyes, as if he had recognized himself for the first time.
I can now recreate life in a way that was hidden from me before.
But women never know when the curtain has fallen.
Why did you paint it?
Two men were loitering in the yard. He leaped from the saddle and threw the reins to one of them.
But he would not sin.
It was not a mere fancy of his own.
It does not do to pepper beaters.
I think it is quite romantic of him.
It seemed to him that it was unchanged, and yet his loathing of it was intensified.
If I did, I would lose all my pleasure.
Yellow crow's feet would creep round the fading eyes and make them horrible.
She killed herself.
She knelt down and pressed his hands to her lips.
had gold embroidered caryatides fifteen feet high in his apartment.
I tried to spare you. You will do me the justice to admit that.
Why, they will hang me, Alan!
You don't inquire where the dead things on which you experiment come from.
You will suffer horribly....
Waiter, bring coffee, and fine-champagne, and some cigarettes.
I forget; but it is what Dorian Gray has been to me.
There were tears in his eyes as he went downstairs. His mother was waiting for him below.
There were poisons so subtle that to know their properties one had to sicken of them.
You like your art better than your friends.
I have never seen you really and absolutely angry, but I can fancy how delightful you looked.
All his failure had been due to that.
The pity of it!
She stumbled away, laughing.
Actual life was chaos, but there was something terribly logical in the imagination.
But their own souls starve, and are naked.
For eighteen months their intimacy lasted.
One of them was from Lord Henry, and had been brought by hand that morning.
He has preached me as a dogma; to-night he will announce me as a revelation.
The fascination that she had exercised over him would return.
Something glimmered on the top of the painted chest that faced him.
Kiss me again, my love. Don't go away from me.
The last act was played to almost empty benches.
I suppose they don't know your name at the theatre?
Contact the Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below. 1.F. 1.F.1.
what a thing I must have worshipped!
You shall listen.
When you are ill you shouldn't act.
Others filled me with terror.
The world would have worshipped you, and you would have borne my name.
A steam rose from the horse as it splashed up the puddles.
And, yet, there was the picture before him, with the touch of cruelty in the mouth. Cruelty!
Nothing about politics, I hope!
He was thinking of Hetty Merton.
The murder had been simply the madness of a moment.
Well, the way of paradoxes is the way of truth.
It was not too late to make reparation for that.
The apple-blossoms kept tumbling down on her hair, and she was laughing.
But this was not one of them.
She stepped back a few paces and her lips seemed to tremble.
He would destroy it. He looked round and saw the knife that had stabbed Basil Hallward.
But a man can paint like Velasquez and yet be as dull as possible.
I love beautiful things that one can touch and handle.
As I passed by, I heard the man yelling out that question to his audience.
Then he bit his lip.
He, at any rate, had escaped that.
In Bond Street he found a hansom with a good horse.
You have no choice.
We would have spoken to each other without any introduction.
In good society that always whitewashes a woman.
I can go to-morrow.
When all that is settled, I shall take a West End theatre and bring her out properly.
Oh! how I shall play it!
We live in an age that reads too much to be wise, and that thinks too much to be beautiful.
The cheeks would become hollow or flaccid.
Of course, I am very fond of Harry.
Vane fixed her eyes on him and intensified her smile.
They have forgotten the highest of all duties, the duty that one owes to one's self.
Those who go beneath the surface do so at their peril.
He was determined not to sleep another night at Selby Royal.
She must have suffered more than he had.
But here is Dorian himself.
I think most of the birds have gone to the open.
The house is rather lonely without her.
you bewilder me.
The duchess sighed and exercised her privilege of interruption.
As he thought of his aunt, an idea seemed to strike him.
Just the sort of life I would like to lead.
It is one of the greatest things in modern art.
Whom did she marry?
I think I shall send a wire to Harvey to have the yacht got ready.
All the candour of youth was there, as well as all youth's passionate purity.
Go to some of your friends.
The wood seemed to him to have become suddenly alive with faces.
Jim insisted that she should do so.
you should never forget it.
The park is quite lovely now.
What about Adrian Singleton and his dreadful end?
I said I would go back to her.
How dare you ask me, of all men in the world, to mix myself up in this horror?
Sibyl Vane's brother had not come back to kill him.
I want to be good.
The formal monotonous ticking of the Louis Quatorze clock annoyed him.
I have never been in better form for painting than I am to-day.
Come and see me some afternoon in Curzon Street.
The picture cannot be shown.
Our fathers used to like that sort of piece, I believe.
He has all the appearance of it, I must say.
As for what I said to you to-night, I said it for your good.
How well he remembered it all!
You have not been fine.
He would go and look. He took the lamp from the table and crept upstairs.
Memory, like a horrible malady, was eating his soul away.
I am sure you were splendid.
A woman in a fluttering shawl was creeping slowly by the railings, staggering as she went.
It can be bought, and sold, and bartered away.
Nothing could alter that.
There was that wretched boy in the Guards who committed suicide.
I assure you we can't bear mediocrities.
The dead man was still sitting there, too, and in the sunlight now.
I know it pains you to talk about our father.
I see I have missed my train.
When I like people immensely, I never tell their names to any one.
Whether what you have told me is true or not true doesn't concern me.
You will always be loved, and you will always be in love with love.
And why is it so?
How well you know me!
Had it indeed been prayer that had produced the substitution?
Something dreadful about marriage.
I did not think so at first, but I admit it now.
He went towards her, and stooping down, he kissed her.
She looked such a child, and seemed to know so little about acting.
She had all the delicate grace of that Tanagra figurine that you have in your studio, Basil.
She could have married anybody she chose.
But that can't be helped.
I have seen her die in the gloom of an Italian tomb, sucking the poison from her lover's lips.
I hear them now, and they make me shudder.
Chapman. Something has happened to you, Dorian.
The audience probably thought it was a duet.
I must tell them that the subject is to be tabooed.
Besides, it is nothing to us.
I should have thought she was almost younger than that.
If the tapestry did but tremble in the wind, he shook.
But beauty, real beauty, ends where an intellectual expression begins.
The true mystery of the world is the visible, not the invisible....
I was very fond of her.
She lacks the indefinable charm of weakness.
I will never see you again.
He would resist temptation.
Like all people who try to exhaust a subject, he exhausted his listeners.
She felt a little disappointed that he had not joined the group.
When I close my eyes, I hear them, and each of them says something different.
Better for him that each sin of his life had brought its sure swift penalty along with it.
The tulip-beds across the road flamed like throbbing rings of fire.
What have I to do with the puppets of a play?
But are you really going for a walk with me?
But Lady Brandon treats her guests exactly as an auctioneer treats his goods.
We are punished for our refusals.
He would laugh at any one who tried to taunt him.
But we won't discuss literature.
They only thought of their emotions.
I know you quite well by your photographs.
One can use them in fiction, of course.
They would mar its beauty and eat away its grace.
You must have a cigarette.
Indeed, so far from being nervous, she was absolutely self-contained.
Her love was trembling in laughter on her lips.
He charmed his listeners out of themselves, and they followed his pipe, laughing.
I am in love with it, Basil.
You have annoyed Dorian.
I am as happy to-day as you were twenty years ago.
Shallow sorrows and shallow loves live on.
After all, it is only once that I have not pleased you.
Some southern wind of passion swept over her and stirred the dainty folds of her dress.
You, who know all the secrets of life, tell me how to charm Sibyl Vane to love me!
He could not bear the idea of reproaching him any more.
He would make that wonderful spirit his own.
I have the greatest contempt for optimism.
Was it very bad?
Not one pulse of his life would ever weaken.
I began to wonder what on earth I should do when I caught sight of the play-bill.
Something began to trickle on the floor.
It had made him conscious how unjust, how cruel, he had been to Sibyl Vane.
You really must not allow yourself to become sunburnt.
Sibyl felt oppressed.
Not one of you would ever be married.
But there is no doubt that the young man in question is a perfect gentleman.
The light shook and splintered in the puddles.
this accident, I suppose.
Indeed, I should be sorry to look like him.
when you have lost it you won't smile....
I was dominated, soul, brain, and power, by you.
Look at that great, honey-coloured moon that hangs in the dusky air.
Or perhaps you had better go in front.
Yes, it had been merely fancy.
I know the age better than you do, though you will prate about it so tediously.
They ride in the park in the morning and chatter at tea-parties in the afternoon.
This taste enthralled him for years, and, indeed, may be said never to have left him.
I know what you must suffer. But where were you?
After a few minutes he became absorbed.
This is a fault. Those who find beautiful meanings in beautiful things are the cultivated.
A bitter blast swept across the square.
I passed a dreadful evening, half afraid that one tragedy might be followed by another.
But he had suffered also.
How gorgeous in its pomp and decoration!
He would never bring misery upon any one.
They are absolutely reasonable.
She laughed at him in her loose Bacchante dress. There were vine leaves in her hair.
I think it was that which first attracted me to her.
Its bright hair gleamed in the early sunlight.
It would have been impossible.
There was the trampling of myriad feet and the low buzz of voices.
Then Death himself had touched her and taken her with him.
For a quarter of an hour he walked up and down the room, biting his lip and thinking.
Then came a new development.
No man comes across two ideal things.
She said quite simply to me, ‘You look more like a prince.
I wonder do I know you?
I suppose in about a fortnight we shall be told that he has been seen in San Francisco.
Might there not be some curious scientific reason for it all?
But then one regrets the loss even of one's worst habits.
The Academy is too large and too vulgar.
Why have you pulled the screen in front of it?
You and I are what we are, and will be what we will be.
He knew her life, and the strange stories that were told about her lovers.
Art is always more abstract than we fancy.
His mood of cowardice had passed away. The man bowed and retired.
The sound of the shutting of the hall door fell on his ear.
It's a habit bores have.
It is a sad thing to think of, but there is no doubt that genius lasts longer than beauty.
When she acts, you will forget everything.
she is audacious enough for anything, my dear.
She never gets confused over her dates, and I always do.
She has played her last part.
Go back and give me the nocturne over again.
I think you might have telegraphed for me when you heard of it first.
A huge fire was blazing.
Why should he trouble about Sibyl Vane?
what a life that is!
My dear fellow, it can't be helped.
Then, suddenly, time stopped for him.
They walked on till they met a policeman and brought him back.
It was Basil Hallward.
He was a most offensive brute, though he had an extraordinary passion for Shakespeare.
It is a gentleman, isn't it, who is in love with her, or says he is?
I want the dead lovers of the world to hear our laughter and grow sad.
How different an actress is!
I met his father yesterday in St.
I am due at the Athenaeum.
Why have you not told me about him?
The sense of his own beauty came on him like a revelation.
But youth smiles without any reason.
Why, she invents hats for me.
The life of the senses was described in the terms of mystical philosophy.
What is going on in town?
Their origin is pure vanity.
His sins, if there are such things as sins, are borrowed.
There were moments, later on, when it had the wild passion of violins.
For I have a new ideal, Harry.
The life that was to make his soul would mar his body.
I was away with my love in a forest that no man had ever seen.
What is done is done.
It is so loud that one can talk the whole time without other people hearing what one says.
The policeman strolled over and said something to her.
I don't know what to say.
He was pleased by it.
Some of them fascinated me.
Sybil rushed to her, flung her arms round her neck, and kissed her.
Yesterday she met me in a little orchard.
Isaacs will be shouting ‘genius' to his loafers at the bar.
Oh, how well I remember it!
She was the loveliest thing I had ever seen in my life.
He had no curiosity.
Finally I took pity on your tired servant and told him to go to bed, as he let me out.
She showed no sign of joy when her eyes rested on Romeo.
That is the reason why I want you to be fine.
He had never done that.
As it had killed the painter, so it would kill the painter's work, and all that that meant.
Think of the position I am in.
They knocked, but there was no reply.
Sibyl is always under my special care.
The only difference is that your moods are rather meaningless.
I have seen him, and oh!
I heard them hissing, and I smiled.
I had only met her once before, but she took it into her head to lionize me.
Have another brandy-and-soda?
The birds sing just as happily in my garden.
If the picture could change, and I could be always what I am now!
You have a wonderful influence.
To become the spectator of one's own life, as Harry says, is to escape the suffering of life.
If you wish the best work I have ever done to be hidden from the world, I am satisfied.
You will laugh at me, I know, but I really went in and paid a whole guinea for the stage-box.
I wonder what the rest of your life will be. Don't spoil it by renunciations.
What about the young Duke of Perth?
Or was it indifferent to results?
There was romance in every place.
In fact, I was on my way to the club to look for you, when I met you.
When I am with her, I regret all that you have taught me.
But you mustn't talk about worship.
I have never had such a friend as you, and I shall never have such another.
Well, Hetty was not one of our own class, of course.
He knew that when he was alone he would have to examine the portrait.
Come in, or the fog will get into the house.
You know what the result will be.
Even as a beginning, it is poor.
You were perfectly still.
But position and wealth are not everything.
It is the best thing I have ever done.
I could not help going round.
Were his own actions merely the dreams that the dead man had not dared to realize?
We are not sent into the world to air our moral prejudices.
By the way, what has become of that wonderful portrait he did of you?
She put her hand upon his arm and looked into his eyes.
Did it mean that he was to confess?
The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification number is 64-6221541.
Ultimately, however, it did die.
I know I am not.
what a nuisance people's people are!
I want to place her on a pedestal of gold and to see the world worship the woman who is mine.
I am forced to bring you into the matter.
I know why I love him.
The body sins once, and has done with its sin, for action is a mode of purification.
Isaacs has advanced us fifty pounds to pay off our debts and to get a proper outfit for James.
No, I must go, dear Agatha.
How clear, and vivid, and cruel!
No winter marred his face or stained his flowerlike bloom.
We practical men like to see things, not to read about them.
I should not forgive that. Harry, promise me that you will never lend that book to any one.
Dorian, you must not stay here any longer.
Gray, the gods have been good to you.
He bit his lip, and for a few seconds his eyes grew sad.
You are not serious.
A wonderful tragic figure?
The old Jew was persistent.
I refused him.
Their eyes met.
It appeared to Dorian to have but little changed.
Do you think I am going to peril my reputation for you?
A faint smile curving that sullen mouth was all the echo she could win.
Basil would be sure to do that.
Had he something of her temperament in him?
Nearly all the individual works in the collection are in the public domain in the United States.
Harry, to whom I talked about it, laughed at me.
Was it not Buonarotti who had carved it in the coloured marbles of a sonnet-sequence?
I suppose she will belong to you some day.
Of course, they are charitable.
Whatever I have done that is good, I owe to you.
Come round to-morrow.
Come, don't work yourself into this fever.
You have gone from corruption to corruption, and now you have culminated in crime.
When Sibyl comes on the stage you will have a new ideal of life.
To me, beauty is the wonder of wonders.
I want you to get rid of the dreadful people you associate with.
You are shallow and stupid.
Indeed, in some measure it was a disappointment to her.
Can she feel, or know, or listen?
I have a letter written already.
Yes, it was Dorian himself.
She could not communicate her joy.
But I don't like scenes, except on the stage.
If Kent's silly son takes his wife from the streets, what is that to me?
To have him sitting there!
I know what conscience is, to begin with.
You are certainly my best friend.
He followed into the market and watched the men unloading their waggons.
Lady Agatha shook her head, but could not help being amused.
We watch ourselves, and the mere wonder of the spectacle enthralls us.
Chapman began to talk in a loud voice about the situation in the House of Commons.
You shan't sit next either of them.
Paralysed with terror, he did not know what to do.
How inquisitive you are, Harry!
When he saw me, he made me a low bow and assured me that I was a munificent patron of art.
Why is your friendship so fatal to young men?
Drunkards had reeled by, cursing and chattering to themselves like monstrous apes.
I had buried my romance in a bed of asphodel.
But I don't want money.
And yet it was a fact.
She doesn't understand how to look after you.
It is all Harry's influence.
However, tell me about your genius.
It is the confession, not the priest, that gives us absolution.
A terrible hope fluttered past him.
Life had come between them....
He would never again tempt innocence.
I love her, and I must make her love me.
She had called on memory to remake him.
He seemed to recognize his own brushwork, and the frame was his own design.
Or rather we are both.
It makes people think that one is a wild shot.
I love him because he is like what love himself should be. But what does he see in me?
Of course, you have your position, and your wealth, and all that kind of thing.
He always breaks his own.
It is an irrevocable vow that I want to take.
Yet they seemed to him to have come really from himself.
Besides, individualism has really the higher aim.
Make my excuses to Lady Narborough.
No: we have given up our belief in the soul.
You don't even know his name.
I want you to have a clean name and a fair record.
As long as a woman can look ten years younger than her own daughter, she is perfectly satisfied.
He would be safe.
Then he trembled.
It was his beauty that had ruined him, his beauty and the youth that he had prayed for.
Don't inquire now.
The past could always be annihilated.
I have got to work up this background, so I will join you later on.
As for a spoiled life, no life is spoiled but one whose growth is arrested.
The only pity was one had to pay so often for a single fault.
He was dimly conscious that entirely fresh influences were at work within him.
She clenched her hands together, and her voice seemed to catch in her throat.
What sort of boy is he?
There is always something ridiculous about the emotions of people whom one has ceased to love.
It fills one with the terror of eternity.
There was still some gold in the thinning hair and some scarlet on the sensual mouth.
After all, his indifference was probably merely a mood that would pass away.
You were a little annoyed; but then you did not realize all that it meant to me.
Out of the black cave of time, terrible and swathed in scarlet, rose the image of his sin.
They are quite obvious.
Life is not governed by will or intention.
You have chattered enough about corruption.
He had listened to them, laughed at them, forgotten them.
They give us an impression of sheer brute force, and we revolt against that.
She had often mimicked death on the stage.
You were his great friend.
Was it not Gautier who used to write about la consolation des arts?
I absolutely refuse to do anything in the matter.
They have had my own divorce-case and Alan Campbell's suicide.
He repeated his words.
And now you had better dress and drive down to the club.
He had never seen him like this before.
Yes, there is nothing in the whole world I would not give!
I am changed, but you must always be my friend.
But here is Harry!
You will like them always.
But nothing must be done in a hurry.
It was horrible!
Had the portrait really changed?
That is always a dreadful moment.
I should fancy in remorse, in suffering, in ...
She tried to look picturesque, but only succeeded in being untidy.
We were to have gone away together this morning at dawn.
I felt I had done wrong.
I don't want to be at the mercy of my emotions.
Perhaps we never really had it.
That is a dreadful word.
I find that, ultimately, there are only two kinds of women, the plain and the coloured.
That is all over now.
Then he stretched out his hand, took a piece of paper, and wrote something on it.
I had left my latch-key at home, and my servant had to let me in.
He told me it was a fine specimen of Robinsoniana, or something dreadful of that kind.
The sunset had smitten into scarlet gold the upper windows of the houses opposite.
It seemed monstrous even to think of them.
I don't care what you say to me.
It is far too fragile.
Months of voiceless agony, and then a child born in pain.
Then it was that I resolved never to allow the picture to be exhibited.
The one charm of the past is that it is the past.
I want you to lead such a life as will make the world respect you.
In the slanting beams that streamed through the open doorway the dust danced and was golden.
I don't know what she will say to me.
It took away all the life from the verse.
I am afraid it is right at the top of the house.
Her hands seemed to be made of cool ivory. Yet she was curiously listless.
You worshipped yourself too much.
Still, your wonderful girl may thrill me.
You are much too delightful to do that.
I will certainly encourage them.
He moved slowly towards it, passing Hallward as he did so.
I would have made you famous, splendid, magnificent.
How horribly white the long hands looked!
You always want to know what one has been doing.
Dorian Gray falls in love with a beautiful girl who acts Juliet, and proposes to marry her.
I admit that I think that it is better to be beautiful than to be good.
The next night, of course, I arrived at the place again.
The basis of optimism is sheer terror.
You do anything in the world to gain a reputation.
You are nothing to me now.
I am so sorry, Basil, but there is only room for two in the brougham.
They are forced to have more than one life.
Everything could be destroyed long before then. A sudden thought struck him.
You have drunk deeply of everything.
He didn't mean it.
What a fool I have been!
Yes. It was to Paris that Basil had gone, and by the midnight train, as he had intended.
She had atoned for everything by the sacrifice she had made of her life.
We might go together, and I will take you to lunch afterwards with Lady Branksome.
The silence, for he made no other observation, became intolerable to her. She began to complain.
He had sailed away in his ship to founder in some winter sea.
But he is much more to me than a model or a sitter.
I have a right to know.
I can't describe to you what I felt at that moment.
Even if I could do it, it would be profanation for me to play at being in love.
They have gone down into the depths.
You must play Chopin to me.
You make yourself ridiculous.
I have been waiting for you in your library ever since nine o'clock.
Yours seem to lose all sense of honour, of goodness, of purity.
There will have to be an inquest, of course, and you must not be mixed up in it.
Why, I can't even recognize Grosvenor Square.
By the way, Dorian, you ran off very early last night.
I am sure of that.
A horrible sense of sickness came over him.
Then he took down the Blue Book from one of the shelves and began to turn over the leaves.
She had sent her soul to search for him, and it had brought him back.
Just touch the bell, and when Parker comes I will tell him what you want.
That awful memory of woman!
That is the worry.
He piled another log on it.
I hardly understood it myself.
When I was in the Diplomatic, things were much better.
I shall be of age in less than a year, and then I can do what I like.
It was the girl's fault, not his.
It was an exquisite day.
Most people become bankrupt through having invested too heavily in the prose of life.
It is only shallow people who require years to get rid of an emotion.
He saw it creeping into the stained trumpet of a Tyrian convolvulus.
It sounds vain, but you understand what I mean.
He wanted me to try some cigars that he strongly recommended.
You never got it back?
I am not sorry for anything that has happened.
Not one blossom of his loveliness would ever fade.
It was silly of me to come down here at all.
how mad I was to love you!
The artist can express everything.
The man whose life I want must be nearly forty now.
He was pale, but absolutely calm.
It seems terrible to me now that they should ever be found together.
The joy of a caged bird was in her voice.
Don't shrug your shoulders like that.
I told him I never even read them.
The thing is quite simple.
An ethical sympathy in an artist is an unpardonable mannerism of style.
Still, it was his own picture.
The mere fact of having published a book of second-rate sonnets makes a man quite irresistible.
It must be seven.
But here is the orchestra.
To reveal art and conceal the artist is art's aim.
I shall be late for lunch, if I stop any longer.
There was no trace of the murdered man anywhere. Everything belonging to him had been destroyed.
When poor Southwark got into the divorce court, their indignation was quite magnificent.
But he has been most pleasant.
It was bright, and glistened.
He heaved a deep breath, and his nostrils quivered with pleasure.
Lord Henry was lying back in a silk-draped wicker chair, looking at them.
That accounts for the fact that we all take such pains to over-educate ourselves.
It was like a placid mask of servility.
After all, what right had he to pry into the life of Dorian Gray?
Besides, what on earth could happen to you, Dorian?
From time to time he seemed to see the eyes of Basil Hallward looking at him.
One's days were too brief to take the burden of another's errors on one's shoulders.
A sailor's existence was dreadful.
He hailed it and in a low voice gave the driver an address. The man shook his head.
I am sorry I didn't see him.
I must get it arranged and put straight before you go into it.
You remember Sibyl, don't you? How long ago that seems!
Lord Radley is sure to be furious.
I may mention that she was not the woman's only child.
Her little hands stretched blindly out, and appeared to be seeking for him.
He is always most polite to me.
Why shouldn't you look at it? You can tell the world all about it afterwards, if you choose.
Don't say that.
Lord Henry Wotton is perfectly right.
I was a schoolboy when you knew me.
Then he stopped, and a troubled look came into his eyes.
They have the charm of being fashionable.
Do you know, I don't think he would have done much more good work.
I love scandals about other people, but scandals about myself don't interest me.
Noiselessly, and with silver feet, the shadows crept in from the garden.
These are the sickly aims, the false ideals, of our age.
Was the world going to be shown his secret?
You had better not come down to dinner.
You said it was because there was too much of yourself in it.
But you must not think I don't like good music.
A mad craving came over him.
When poverty creeps in at the door, love flies in through the window.
It is one of the great romantic tragedies of the age.
The man upstairs will not go away.
You are an extraordinary fellow.
No; I did it myself.
You are quite flawless now.
I must analyse it some day.
I am too much in love.
It took him three-quarters of an hour to consume everything.
Yes, it had been conscience.
I know, now, that when one loses one's good looks, whatever they may be, one loses everything.
What is it but canvas and colour?
It is impossible to be angry with you.
Or perhaps it would be more accurate to say that he never sought to free himself from it.
No artist has ethical sympathies.
Things like that make a man fashionable in Paris. But in London people are so prejudiced.
One should reserve that to give an interest to one's old age.
I shall come round and see you to-morrow, or next day.
and to such little purpose!
The only thing he considers of any importance is whether one believes it oneself.
My own personality has become a burden to me.
Charles of England had ridden in stirrups hung with four hundred and twenty-one diamonds.
in what a wild hour of madness he had killed his friend!
Sibyl Vane seemed to him to be absurdly melodramatic.
Who the man is, why he died, how he died, are matters that do not concern you.
Leaf bustled into the library.
It was delightful to watch him.
I wonder who it was defined man as a rational animal.
Intellect is in itself a mode of exaggeration, and destroys the harmony of any face.
His cool, white, flowerlike hands, even, had a curious charm.
I don't know what it is about them.
Yes, Dorian, you will always be fond of me.
And why was the red stain larger than it had been?
The moment one sits down to think, one becomes all nose, or all forehead, or something horrid.
One has a right to judge of a man by the effect he has over his friends.
If you had married this girl, you would have been wretched.
He would never again tempt by a prayer any terrible power.
They are good husbands, or faithful wives, or something tedious.
Why had it been left for a stranger to reveal him to himself?
Hallward?' she screamed out.
I want you to tell me about his mother.
It was an extraordinary improvisation.
His mother was a Devereux, Lady Margaret Devereux.
It should have been told to him before, if it was as he suspected.
Of course, he had a wonderful genius for painting.
He has Selby, I know.
Besides, I always deal with Dartmoor's tradesmen, and consequently they never bother me.
I am not going to do any more.
It was useless.
The real drawback to marriage is that it makes one unselfish.
Why had he been made like that?
Dorian heard him first stopping on the pavement and then hurrying after him.
I am tired of myself to-night.
What are you now?
It cannot be questioned.
It is the world's original sin.
I looked out from behind the curtain and surveyed the house.
The world is wide, and has many marvellous people in it.
But when she does find me out, she makes no row at all.
Who had made him a judge over others?
It was wrong in colour.
The house was absolutely quiet.
I feel as if something horrible were going to happen to some of us.
London is very rich in curious effects of that kind.
Now that I have made it, something seems to have gone out of me.
They spoil every romance by trying to make it last for ever.
England is bad enough I know, and English society is all wrong.
A green, an unripe time, a time of shallow moods, and sickly thoughts.
He stabbed him twice more, but the man did not move.
Only listen, Alan.
As long as I live, the personality of Dorian Gray will dominate me.
You taught me what reality really is.
The only artists I have ever known who are personally delightful are bad artists.
You don't really mind, Basil, do you?
In the present instance, you are quite astray.
We cannot spare you.
I think that if you did, even you would turn from me.
She says she never sees you now.
Had the lover of Giovanna of Naples bequeathed him some inheritance of sin and shame?
Tell me what it is.
The band, such as it was, struck up a few bars of music, and the dance began.
He stared at it.
That was what he was waiting for. Surely he had begun it already.
Her hair clustered round her face like dark leaves round a pale rose.
I shall not inform upon you.
Lord Henry had the charm of being very dangerous.
If Basil chooses to hide himself, it is no business of mine.
Harry is so cynical, he terrifies me.
If I am late he is sure to be furious, and I couldn't have a scene in this bonnet.
There was something in the purity of his face that rebuked them.
His eyelids drooped till the long fringed lashes almost touched his cheek.
Then it passed away.
She is everything to me in life.
That was what he wanted.
However, it wasn't about myself I wanted to talk. Here we are at your door.
He felt a little annoyed with Lord Henry for having sent him the report.
Something has changed you completely.
But I certainly shall not run away, now that you have asked me to stop.
You must have some secret.
He shall never know anything about it.
He told me right out before everybody.
I fancied a thousand things.
I am going to ride at eleven.
We can forgive a man for making a useful thing as long as he does not admire it.
I said it fascinated me.
And it has all been to you no more than the sound of music.
Suddenly something happened that made me afraid.
The man who could call a spade a spade should be compelled to use one.
He waited for people to come to him.
What is marriage?
You might have entered a solicitor's office.
It was charming to have escaped all that!
A mouse ran scuffling behind the wainscoting.
I believe my house is somewhere about here, but I don't feel at all certain about it.
All the women of that family were.
There were large green rosettes upon her little pointed shoes.
Youth had spoiled him. It was better not to think of the past.
I am sure I don't know what to say about your views.
He was too clever and too cynical to be really fond of.
That was horrible in its cruelty.
There is some answer to you, but I cannot find it.
Ordinary women never appeal to one's imagination.
I love Sibyl Vane.
Dorian Gray went over and poured out the tea.
He had got from her his beauty, and his passion for the beauty of others.
Why not? If he wedded Messalina, he would be none the less interesting.
He sat up, and having sipped some tea, turned over his letters.
She saw the thin lips moving, and smiled. Suddenly she felt the need to speak.
The woodwork creaked and seemed to cry out as if in pain.
There was the bargaining with the cabman.
He answered to every touch and thrill of the bow....
If it were only the other way!
They are both perfect.
His breath quickened.
His mother had money, too.
What was the use of knowing?
A cry of joy broke from his lips.
You are like one of the heroes of those silly melodramas Mother used to be so fond of acting in.
The tragedy of old age is not that one is old, but that one is young.
I could not bear your doing either of those two things.
These oval, heavy-lidded eyes seemed to look curiously at him.
Life has been hard for us both, terribly hard and difficult.
You were the most unspoiled creature in the whole world.
He had found it at last.
You had brought me something higher, something of which all art is but a reflection.
But it will be different now.
And, remember, it is the only piece of evidence against me.
Pleasure is Nature's test, her sign of approval.
I know now that I was quite right in what I fancied about him. His life is dreadful.
There, of course, I stumbled against Lady Brandon.
She was conscious that a great opportunity had been wasted.
It is only the intellectually lost who ever argue.
For a moment I thought of following you there.
Such things were impossible.
When I leave town now I never tell my people where I am going.
Like the gods of the Greeks, he would be strong, and fleet, and joyous.
There were opiates for remorse, drugs that could lull the moral sense to sleep.
No; I think our ideas are quite different.
He would place his white hands beside the coarse bloated hands of the picture, and smile.
The worse their rhymes are, the more picturesque they look.
It had taught him to love his own beauty. Would it teach him to loathe his own soul?
The flies buzzed round the table and crawled over the stained cloth.
I remember I wanted to buy it.
There was no name of any kind.
And, besides, might not his nature grow finer, after all?
As he strolled home, smoking his cigarette, two young men in evening dress passed him.
Crime belongs exclusively to the lower orders.
And, yet, what did it matter?
Come and have something to drink.
She was free in her prison of passion.
can't you forgive me for to-night?
They had been plucked at midnight, and the coldness of the moon had entered into them.
But what a lack of taste she showed!
You have never played so well as to-night.
But the future was inevitable.
The girl died, too, died within a year.
His throat burned and his delicate hands twitched nervously together.
I see you are laughing.
Against the shell of her ear broke the waves of worldly cunning.
Those who read the symbol do so at their peril.
It was a tawdry affair, all Cupids and cornucopias, like a third-rate wedding-cake.
Huge carts filled with nodding lilies rumbled slowly down the polished empty street.
That such a change should have taken place was incredible to him.
My dear fellow, why?
He started back as if in surprise. Then he went on into his own room, looking somewhat puzzled.
I trust he is one of the aristocracy.
He lives the poetry that he cannot write.
When I came on to-night, I could not understand how it was that everything had gone from me.
But still I don't think I would go to Harry if I were in trouble.
Nobody would believe you.
I have seen her in every age and in every costume.
His eyes deepened into amethyst, and across them came a mist of tears.
They passed words to each other as players at a game pass counters.
Besides, nothing makes one so vain as being told that one is a sinner.
To have ruined one's self over poetry is an honour.
They have been through the fire, and what fire does not destroy, it hardens.
I feel quite sure of that.
It was the man's own fault.
It is most fortunate that you were not thought of at the time.
As a rule, he is charming to me, and we sit in the studio and talk of a thousand things.
You are going to a new world, and I have found one.
But there was no motive power in experience.
After some time she became silent.
From a moral point of view, I cannot say that I think much of your great renunciation.
Every moment that passes takes something from me and gives something to it.
They would be happy together.
There were beads of perspiration there.
I am not going to break my word to her.
Don't be so indifferent.
One can always find them.
Don't ever say things of that kind to me again. Two days ago I asked Sibyl to marry me.
A coarse candle, stuck in a bottle, sputtered beside it. Dorian Gray shuddered.
They know how useful passion is for publication.
I am telling you the truth.
His mouth twitched, and his parched tongue seemed unable to articulate.
It had changed in answer to a prayer; perhaps in answer to a prayer it might remain unchanged.
It is only people who pay their bills who want that, Uncle George, and I never pay mine.
He had been a macaroni of the eighteenth century, and the friend, in his youth, of Lord Ferrars.
It is one of the best things I have ever done.
His kiss burned again upon her mouth.
Be always searching for new sensations. Be afraid of nothing....
Facts fled before her like frightened forest things.
Time is jealous of you, and wars against your lilies and your roses.
His valet had gone to bed....
I wish you would fall in love.
He turned on his heel and left the room.
The panes glowed like plates of heated metal.
The common people who acted with me seemed to me to be godlike.
Anything would be better than this dreadful state of doubt. He got up and locked both doors.
But I can't help myself.
The painter was silent and preoccupied.
But in our own century it was strange....
Credit is the capital of a younger son, and one lives charmingly upon it.
Of the threat she said nothing.
Or the desire for a new sensation, as Lord Henry had hinted, with his mocking laugh?
Is that very vain of me?
To a large extent the lad was his own creation.
He had spared one innocent thing, at any rate.
Why I shall always be bad.
It seemed to have crept like a horrible disease over the wrinkled fingers.
But I really loved her.
There was a gloom over him.
Good-bye, Harry.
He could easily burn them afterwards.
And unselfish people are colourless.
I reminded him that I was a friend of yours, and asked him what he meant. He told me.
His fingers moved instinctively towards it, dipped in, and closed on something.
A spotted handkerchief had been placed over the face.
Then he pulled out his watch.
He took long stealthy strides. His hands were curiously cold. The suspense became unbearable.
Somewhere in the Euston Road, isn't it?
If they don't, it is all right.
Dorian Gray had not killed her. His eye fell on the yellow book that Lord Henry had sent him.
And the mind of the thoroughly well-informed man is a dreadful thing.
For he was not to remain a sailor, or a supercargo, or whatever he was going to be. Oh, no!
This is going to be my masterpiece.
It is an absurd attitude to take towards life.
There was something in its expression that filled him with disgust and loathing. Good heavens!
But I wish you had left word where you had really gone to.
Success was given to the strong, failure thrust upon the weak.
Once it had given him pleasure to watch it changing and growing old.
The more he knew, the more he desired to know.
He seemed determined to take me behind, so I consented.
I did not want any external influence in my life.
The world belongs to you for a season....
He felt a hand laid on his arm and looked round with a start.
I am afraid I walked too far this morning.
No: everything was still.
The mere thought made him cold with horror.
It was perfectly true.
I wish I had never laid eyes upon you!
That was impossible.
He was prisoned in thought.
He watched them curiously.
It was at my aunt, Lady Agatha's.
A sense of infinite pity, not for himself, but for the painted image of himself, came over him.
For it was an unjust mirror, this mirror of his soul that he was looking at.
you silly boy!
Why had it altered?
There was something sly about him, and he had thoughtful, treacherous eyes.
The spray of lilac fell from his hand upon the gravel.
unless a copyright notice is included.
Of course, now and then things linger.
She dragged it out again and assured me that I had spoiled her life.
I thought that I was going to be wonderful.
Basil had said things to him that were unbearable, and that he had yet borne with patience.
You must do me a drawing of Sibyl, Basil.
From her little head to her little feet, she is absolutely and entirely divine.
It is simply expression, as Harry says, that gives reality to things.
Quick breath parted the petals of her lips.
He knew it, and he felt as if his blood had changed in a moment from fire to sluggish ice.
I suffered immensely.
Their strong passions must either bruise or bend.
You know what they are.
If so, he never forgave you.
The idea was monstrous, yet he felt afraid.
Some red star had come too close to the earth.... And yet, what evidence was there against him?
There are only two ways by which man can reach it.
But I should like to talk to you about life.
I don't suppose I shall ever see this horrid London again.
That is one of your aphorisms.
Last night she was a great artist.
Alan! If you don't come to my assistance, I am ruined.
Enough is as bad as a meal.
I told her that I loved her, and she said she was not worthy to be my wife.
Mourn for Ophelia, if you like.
No one was about.
You should say the first romance of your life.
The laburnum will be as yellow next June as it is now.
Did any one see you going round to her room?
Had some strange poisonous germ crept from body to body till it had reached his own?
I found that I could do nothing.
His nature had developed like a flower, had borne blossoms of scarlet flame.
I make a great difference between people.
He repeated her name over and over again.
Yes: it was certainly a tedious party.
You don't know what an existence they lead down there.
It is only his wife.
Religion consoles some.
Tell me something about yourself.
He read on by its wan light till he could read no more.
Her gestures became absurdly artificial.
And it is all his, his only, Prince Charming, my wonderful lover, my god of graces.
He hasn't changed much since then.
If he is dead, I don't want to think about him. Death is the only thing that ever terrifies me.
But who had done it?
I know that perfectly well.
A furry bee came and buzzed round it for a moment.
I thought of telling the prophet that art had a soul, but that man had not.
How grave you are!
He hated the idea of even touching them. Yet it had to be done.
You are the type of what the age is searching for, and what it is afraid it has found.
The man with whom my wife ran away played Chopin exquisitely.
I should have thought you knew more about people's characters.
I knew nothing of you but the pet name she used to call you. I heard it to-night by chance.
She is perfectly charming; and Patti sang divinely. Don't talk about horrid subjects.
Our grandmothers painted in order to try and talk brilliantly.
The curves of her throat were the curves of a white lily.
At least he would be alone when he looked upon the mask of his shame.
What could they know of love such as ours?
She wiped her eyes with shaking hands.
It makes me shudder when I hear it. Women are so fond of using it.
But I am poor beside him.
It was simply bad art.
But don't waste your tears over Sibyl Vane.
I think you will tire first, all the same.
You mock at everything, and then suggest the most serious tragedies.
If they did believe you, they would like me all the better for it.
They would defile it and make it shameful.
It is not merely that I paint from him, draw from him, sketch from him.
It seemed to him that he had been walking in fire.
Had there been nothing more in his renunciation than that?
Sin is a thing that writes itself across a man's face.
I knew nothing but shadows, and I thought them real.
He thought only of Sibyl.
How different he was now from the shy frightened boy he had met in Basil Hallward's studio!
From time to time the butler filled his glass with champagne.
He had greasy ringlets, and an enormous diamond blazed in the centre of a soiled shirt.
I myself used to receive many bouquets at one time.
It seems to me that you are the young Apollo and that I am Marsyas listening to you.
Worlds had to be in travail, that the meanest flower might blow....
I shan't go to the club.
I might mimic a passion that I do not feel, but I cannot mimic one that burns me like fire.
She was only a year older than he was, but she knew so much more of life.
Yes: you led them there, and yet you can smile, as you are smiling now.
But he is not on the stage.
Vane winced and put her thin, bismuth-whitened hands on her daughter's head.
He had not painted it.
Dorian told me so afterwards.
When a man marries again, it is because he adored his first wife.
What had happened?
Did you go down and see the girl's mother?
We loved each other very much.
Everybody started up.
It was no matter how it all ended, or was destined to end.
What about Lord Kent's only son and his career?
If you only saw him, you would think him the most wonderful person in the world.
Innocent blood had been spilled.
She mentally elevated her son to the dignity of an audience.
He is quite right.
It's absurd to talk of the ignorance of youth.
It is not true!
It was twenty minutes to twelve.
If you wish me never to look at your picture again, I am content.
It was Romeo and Juliet.
Deny them, Dorian, deny them!
The evening darkened in the room.
The paints I used had some wretched mineral poison in them.
I have promised to meet a man at the Orleans.
It has a life of its own.
Did it merely take cognizance of what passed within the soul?
He must not be allowed to know where the picture was being taken to.
I am afraid, however, that, for me at any rate, there is no such thing.
I don't want to have it hung up. Just lean it against the wall.
In hers he saw a wild appeal for mercy.
I am analysing women at present, so I ought to know.
How terrible they were!
In a thoughtless moment I asked one of the gardeners what it was called.
Didn't you get my letter?
No glamour ever transfigures them.
I tell you, Harry, I could hardly see this girl for the mist of tears that came across me.
Why had he worn its livery?
He came close to him and put his hand upon his shoulder.
I can't tell you what it was, but it was terrible.
I am irritable, and out of temper.
Makes it quite cosmopolitan, doesn't it?
Or rather, I know who he is.
It was conscious of the events of life as they occurred.
The sky above was like a faded rose.
There is a son, a charming fellow, I believe.
The situation had not been gradually led up to.
She was quite beautiful and wonderfully like Sibyl Vane.
The knocking still continued and grew louder.
I read of it quite by chance in a late edition of The Globe that I picked up at the club.
There had been a madness of murder in the air.
It had received the news of Sibyl Vane's death before he had known of it himself.
You don't imagine I let him arrange my room for me?
Once the man lost his way and had to drive back half a mile.
the thing is impossible.
You have made experiments.
Except for a light in one of the top windows, the house was all dark.
Some day you will be in love yourself.
The twisted limbs, the gaping mouths, the staring lustreless eyes, fascinated him.
Don't look so sulky.
The thing was absurd.
You used to stir my imagination.
As for omens, there is no such thing as an omen.
Out of the unreal shadows of the night comes back the real life that we had known.
it was Dorian Gray's own face that he was looking at!
He opened The St.
I have sorrows, Dorian, of my own, that even you know nothing of.
It is horribly hot in the studio.
I couldn't bear it.
He felt that Dorian Gray would never again be to him all that he had been in the past.
She has been innocent, and the black hands of jealousy have crushed her reedlike throat.
What an exquisite life you have had!
She was simply a girl in a village.
They have their stereotyped smile and their fashionable manner.
I am different, but you must not like me less.
And now I am off. Imogen is waiting for me.
All I ask of you is to perform a certain scientific experiment.
The women sidled up and began to chatter.
Still, there are certain temperaments that marriage makes more complex.
And her only child, too!
He thrust up the trap and called to the man to drive faster.
There was a curl of contempt in his lips.
Now and then she stopped and peered back.
He looked pale, and proud, and indifferent.
It had perhaps served often as a pall for the dead.
He had a bag in his hand.
I know you and Harry are inseparable.
Nor, indeed, was it the death of Basil Hallward that weighed most upon his mind.
They seem in front of me.
He has already copied your neckties, and has begged me to introduce him to you.
A rose shook in her blood and shadowed her cheeks.
A man cannot be too careful in the choice of his enemies.
It was terribly pathetic.
No, you must keep your good looks.
I have grown to love secrecy.
Her blood, also, stirred within him.
Courage has gone out of our race.
I hate the stage.
You know how a voice can stir one.
Dorian, you will come with me.
He paused for a moment, and a wild feeling of pity came over him.
I have chosen my own life.
They had not influenced his nature.
They have wonderfully primitive instincts.
Let us have our coffee in the music-room, Dorian.
No artist desires to prove anything.
But there is no disgrace upon her.
Is insincerity such a terrible thing?
Modern morality consists in accepting the standard of one's age.
Would there ever be some one who would fill him with a strange idolatry?
He seized the lighted candle, and held it to the picture.
I only trust your name won't be mentioned in connection with it.
It will be like having a meat-tea, or reading an English novel.
You people who go in for being consistent have just as many moods as others have.
You find me consoled, and you are furious.
It had kept him awake at night.
Here: this will do.
The subject is not so abstruse as I thought it was.
But I am much obliged for the compliment, all the same.
They sit silently and watch her.
I thought how tragic it would be if you were wasted.
Then he turned back and looked at her.
I wanted to have you all to myself.
He felt glad at what he had said. When they reached the Achilles Statue, she turned round.
It was the imagination that set remorse to dog the feet of sin.
When we blame ourselves, we feel that no one else has a right to blame us.
They cut the air like a dagger.
They all are, ain't they?
The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern what you can do with this work.
It is a meaningless word, too.
Then it became a little louder, and sounded like a flute or a distant hautboy.
James's Street.
I don't blame them in the smallest degree.
The poor chap was killed in a duel at Spa a few months after the marriage.
Some whim, I suppose.
Oh, Dorian, Dorian, you understand now what it signifies?
His own soul was looking out at him from the canvas and calling him to judgement.
Don't try to influence him.
Besides, even if he did confess, who would believe him?
It was so unlike Dorian to speak like that.
It is so clever of them, and such a compliment to art.
It was certainly strange. He turned round and, walking to the window, drew up the blind.
At some of the letters, he smiled.
I am bound to state that she never told me he was good-looking.
You should have killed him.
Weeks and weeks went on, and I grew more and more absorbed in you.
Try and make him come.
I want to be better.
Mercutio was almost as bad.
How had she played that dreadful last scene?
No; the thing had to be examined, and at once.
His eyes grew strangely bright, and he gnawed nervously at his underlip.
I sat in the dingy box absolutely enthralled.
You go to hospitals and dead-houses, and the horrors that you do there don't affect you.
The pulse and passion of youth were in him, but he was becoming self-conscious.
Copyright laws in most countries are in a constant state of change.
The horror, whatever it was, had not yet entirely spoiled that marvellous beauty.
You mock at it for that.
Had any foot-marks been found on the flower-beds, the gardeners would have reported it.
Campbell was always either at Selby Royal or in Grosvenor Square.
I always take hock-and-seltzer myself.
You have changed, of course, but not in appearance.
This unfortunate accident has upset me.
Her trust makes me faithful, her belief makes me good.
It was a marvellous spotted thing, as effective as the seven deadly sins.
I thought her shallow.
Don't keep Dorian too long.
You don't know what you are talking about.
Trunks had to be carried down and mufflers looked for.
And what did she say in answer?
I am afraid I may frighten the company, frighten or enthrall them.
There was a look of fear in his eyes, such as people have when they are suddenly awakened.
What was he to say of that?
You must not forget that, Sibyl.
But I was not moved a bit.
They make one's rooms look so picturesque.
I suppose she will be married some day to a rough carter or a grinning ploughman.
But I was afraid of intruding upon a sorrow that I could not lighten.
If you don't help me, I must send it.
It was foolish of me, and yet I couldn't help it.
I have told you too much as it is.
Thanks for giving me the information I wanted.
Then it began to scramble all over the oval stellated globe of the tiny blossoms.
I know I was right in acting as I did.
That is all that can be said for them.
It is not a story I could tell to any one else. I spared somebody.
here is the duchess, looking like Artemis in a tailor-made gown.
And now she is dead.
I am nearly always at home at five o'clock.
You are really wonderful, Dorian.
I will never think of you.
I am delighted to be of any service to you.
It can be poisoned, or made perfect.
I feel too tired to eat anything.
Except, of course, in the Church.
The thing was horribly apparent. He threw himself into a chair and began to think.
I adore it, but I am afraid of it.
It is not good for one's morals to see bad acting.
You, as a good Tory, must not underrate them.
Don't be afraid.
It is an admirable place for it.
I could not give it here.
The memory of the thing is hateful to me.
I am simply indifferent to the whole thing.
He is the worst one that comes here. They say he has sold himself to the devil for a pretty face.
There is a great difference.
It is too ugly, too horrible, too distressing.
You are more fortunate than I am.
It was only in the theatre that I lived.
I become different from what you have known me to be.
For years I have sought you. I had no clue, no trace.
Oh, Harry, I can't bear it!
I see that Basil is in one of his sulky moods, and I can't bear him when he sulks.
What have you or I to do with the superstitions of our age?
With his beautiful face, and his beautiful soul, he was a thing to wonder at.
It would serve as a tale to tell Basil some day.
It had been given to him by Adrian Singleton.
He is sure to do it, then.
They can sit at their ease and gape at the play.
The presence of Adrian Singleton troubled him.
He was in jest.... But you, oh!
Oh, yes; it was a bad business.
Surely you don't think it was a vulgar accident?
How can you say such horrible things?
He was thick-set of figure, and his hands and feet were large and somewhat clumsy in movement.
The inquest is to take place this afternoon.
Yet he felt he could not stay.
Were people to gape at the mystery of his life?
A tattered lace handkerchief twitched in her fingers.
Here, one should never make one's début with a scandal.
From some of the bars came the sound of horrible laughter.
Then he turned to the still figure in the chair.
I am off to Paris by the midnight train, and I particularly wanted to see you before I left.
The mere danger gave me a sense of delight.
I trust you will return from Australia in a position of affluence.
As he did so, he saw the face of his portrait leering in the sunlight.
A copy of the third edition of The St.
His sudden mad love for Sibyl Vane was a psychological phenomenon of no small interest.
The wan mirrors get back their mimic life.
It is a horrible lie!
There was something terribly enthralling in the exercise of influence.
It was from within, apparently, that the foulness and horror had come.
I believed in everything.
Life had suddenly become too hideous a burden for him to bear.
You must not be angry with me, Dorian, for what I have told you.
I wish that I had ever had such an experience.
I like to find out people for myself.
It was a poisonous book.
Play me something.
There was nothing to be afraid of, there.
We will smoke cigarettes and drink to the beauty of Sibyl Vane.
Each hideous detail came back to him with added horror.
Erskine of Treadley has the world on his shelves.
Words dropped mechanically from her lips.
I don't want to know anything further.
They waited some time for her, but she did not come down again.
No; never mind.
But really, Dorian, how different Sibyl Vane must have been from all the women one meets!
That will be nice!
And mind you don't talk about anything serious.
I have no option.
Had it been merely vanity that had made him do his one good deed?
Why should it keep what I must lose?
You have crushed the grapes against your palate.
My brother paid the bill at last.
He heard Sir Geoffrey ask if the man was really dead, and the affirmative answer of the keeper.
Go there at once and meet me.
If I had read all this in a book, Harry, I think I would have wept over it.
A strange sense of fear, for which he could not account, came over him.
What is it to me where she came from?
I never liked him, but I had nothing to complain about.
Her grandfather hated Kelso, thought him a mean dog.
Or that passion to act a part that sometimes makes us do things finer than we are ourselves?
The painted scenes were my world.
But let us pass from poor Basil.
Over the low roofs and jagged chimney-stacks of the houses rose the black masts of ships.
Oh, she was so shy and so gentle.
They made quite a story of it.
I don't care for brothers.
Do take the screen away, Dorian.
I shall have to pay him something, of course.
One is by being cultured, the other by being corrupt.
Why should he have been murdered?
Dorian looked at him for a moment.
In hypocrisy he had worn the mask of goodness.
The man was quite impassive and waited for his orders.
Wash away our iniquities.' Let us say that together.
His own picture!
Things that he had dimly dreamed of were suddenly made real to him.
It's nigh on eighteen years since I met him.
Gray. Don't frown.
He had known Basil Hallward for months, but the friendship between them had never altered him.
And Geoffrey is not; he shoots very straight.
After a time the bee flew away.
One can always be kind to people about whom one cares nothing.
His beauty had been to him but a mask, his youth but a mockery. What was youth at best?
What did it matter what happened to the coloured image on the canvas?
They are limited to their century.
It was evident that Victor had returned.
The two men's eyes met.
How much that strange confession explained to him!
They take things flying.
A few wild weeks of happiness cut short by a hideous, treacherous crime.
That is the one use of the idle classes of a country.
Egad, I was ashamed of him.
You filled me with a wild desire to know everything about life.
He turned away in horror.
What was she like?
I didn't go to the club.
He was always late on principle, his principle being that punctuality is the thief of time.
He shrugged his shoulders.
A red pencil-mark on the fifth page caught his eye.
I am a man now.
The men were a poor lot, but, egad!
The others he opened listlessly.
You would not turn a hair.
And they dress well, too.
To be in love is to surpass one's self.
Wait, wait a moment; listen to me.
He felt that he was on the brink of a horrible danger.
A decent-looking man, sir, but rough-like.
You see the address.
They are all men of some intellectual power, and consequently they all appreciate me.
Yes, Basil could have saved him.
Night after night I go to see her play.
They were better off than he was.
He is a sailor, or something.
We live in an age when men treat art as if it were meant to be a form of autobiography.
Nobody saw this person come into the house.
It is rather awkward for Geoffrey, of course.
That is the reason why people who live out of town are so absolutely uncivilized.
There was simply the passion of the spectator, with perhaps a flicker of triumph in his eyes.
It was dreadful.
The expression looked different.
I am going to be better.
The moment she touched actual life, she marred it, and it marred her, and so she passed away.
It makes princes of those who have it.
One would have said that there was a touch of cruelty in the mouth.
Dorian Gray went back to his seat.
There was nothing that one could not do with him.
Simply that you felt that you admired me too much.
There was only one bit of evidence left against him.
The man rang the bell several times, but there was no answer.
Why not let it stay there?
The prayer of your pride has been answered.
Of course, married life is merely a habit, a bad habit.
What a blessing it is that there is one art left to us that is not imitative!
Oh, I can't bear to think of it!
And how happy we used to be together!
I leave that to you.
If you want to mar a nature, you have merely to reform it.
But you never sat better.
The driver beat at them with his whip. It is said that passion makes one think in a circle.
Old Florentine.
What could he do then?
It seems to be the one thing that can make modern life mysterious or marvellous to us.
How shallow were the arbitrary definitions of ordinary psychologists!
Told me so himself.
tell your Aunt Agatha, Harry, not to bother me any more with her charity appeals.
He seemed quite angry.
Or was the body really in the soul, as Giordano Bruno thought?
You don't want people to talk of you as something vile and degraded.
But Sibyl! You should have seen her!
I go on board to-night for India, and I must do my job first.
I knew his mother intimately.
A dog barked as they went by, and far away in the darkness some wandering sea-gull screamed.
Have you any reason?
If he had done a tithe of what was rumoured about him, how much he must have suffered!
In the profession we are accustomed to receive a great deal of most gratifying attention.
From some chimney opposite a thin wreath of smoke was rising.
I will come and have tea with you.
He saw it all again.
Let me come in for a moment.
The generation into which I was born was tedious.
Where had they passed to?
It seems silly of the French, doesn't it?
It was nothing to him. A new life!
She tossed her head and raked the coins off the counter with greedy fingers.
I was thinking of you all the time.
Was it not Plato, that artist in thought, who had first analyzed it?
I always hear Harry's views from his friends.
You have never looked more charming than you do to-night.
Carlington was mad after her.
What if it should be stolen?
I suppose he has been paying you compliments.
But I don't want to interrupt you.
They walked softly, as men do instinctively at night.
In fact, I don't want any white ones.
It is so much more real than life. Let us go.
A Gladstone bag and an ulster!
She is simply a born artist.
Oh, Harry, how I loved her once!
The two people who could have described you were dead.
So she left a son, did she?
I am sorry you are going away, as I have not seen you for ages.
The commonest thing is delightful if one only hides it.
Some women were laughing in the pit.
At last he got up and began to pace up and down the room, looking like a beautiful caged thing.
I am quite serious.
Still, I felt interested, in a sort of way.
I wish now that I was not going to Australia at all.
She wrung her hands in mock despair.
The vulgar directness of the question called for a direct answer.
What did it mean?
It is not what you told me it was.
Live the wonderful life that is in you! Let nothing be lost upon you.
You have set yourself to music.
Fifty pounds is a very large sum.
I won't tell you that I don't want to preach to you.
I'll go to the stables myself.
You will like him so much. Everybody likes him, and I ...
But who could tell?
How absurdly nervous you are, my dear fellow!
She was nothing to him now. But the picture?
Basil, I can't allow you to smoke cigars.
God was very good, and would watch over him.
They feed the hungry and clothe the beggar.
He could see the reflection of Victor's face perfectly.
Once, she began to sing in a hoarse voice.
Basil had been with him part of the time, and had gone wild over Tintoret.
She had never seemed to me more exquisite.
However, I don't propose to discuss politics, sociology, or metaphysics with you.
How evil he looked!
He stamped his foot upon the ground in his boyish insolent manner.
Let us kneel down and try if we cannot remember a prayer.
Let us go up to the drawing-room.
Dorian did not know what to say or do.
It was the strangest book that he had ever read.
The gods made Sibyl Vane for you.
And so will you, Harry?
It cannot be concealed.
The mutilation of the savage has its tragic survival in the self-denial that mars our lives.
Now you don't even stir my curiosity.
If Adrian Singleton writes his friend's name across a bill, am I his keeper?
I don't know what it was, but it had either prussic acid or white lead in it.
He opened it and found it was from Dorian Gray.
He covered page after page with wild words of sorrow and wilder words of pain.
Some of them do it by going in for sentimental colours.
This one will have to interest you.
I thought you would be.
You remember the one I wore at Lady Hilstone's garden-party?
As he read it, his face became ghastly pale and he fell back in his chair.
Why not tell me what it is?
He was gathering his harvest while it was yet spring.
She makes them as responsive as a violin.
I thought it was you, or rather your fur coat, as you passed me.
Put ashes on your head because Cordelia was strangled.
Life has revealed to them her latest wonder.
Why should he watch the hideous corruption of his soul?
Most American women do.
Don't speak. Let me think.
Prince Charming!
It had brought melancholy across his passions.
She was romantic, though.
Why should I not love her?
But it is said of you.
I am not worthy of him.
It has been said that the great events of the world take place in the brain.
I grew afraid and turned to quit the room.
He gave me everything I wanted, including your best gold-tipped cigarettes.
Why had he not known it? With his subtle smile, Lord Henry watched him.
She used to wonder if he suspected anything.
You would be a set of unfortunate bachelors.
If I ever did a crime, I would come and confess it to you.
It had altered already, and would alter more.
Mother is no help to you.
The stones flew from her hoofs. At last he reached the Home Farm.
Let me know yours, and I shall tell you mine.
Gray at present.
It was very low at first, with deep mellow notes that seemed to fall singly upon one's ear.
He was perfectly safe there.
There was a radiance about her.
It is very sweet of you to let me have your last afternoon.
On the floor in front of it the torn curtain was lying.
An irrevocable vow.
I was afraid there might be something in it that I wouldn't like.
Women defend themselves by attacking, just as they attack by sudden and strange surrenders.
Greasy reflectors of ribbed tin backed them, making quivering disks of light.
In a few moments he was out of the theatre. Where he went to he hardly knew.
They called out.
When you were away from me, you were still present in my art....
He grew nervous, and a horrible fit of terror came over him.
It was simply the expression that had altered.
The moment was lost in vulgar details.
You don't know what he had made me suffer.
You have thrown it all away.
What does it matter?
I know how people chatter in England.
I like Wagner's music better than anybody's.
If so, marriage should be thought of.
Hubbard, if you will kindly follow me.
The little duchess is quite devoted to you.
The picture, changed or unchanged, would be to him the visible emblem of conscience.
I think I must go and lie down.
He spoke slowly and with effort.
The colour came back to his cheeks, and a smile played about his lips.
The lad was actually pallid with rage.
Lying on the floor was a dead man, in evening dress, with a knife in his heart.
He had absolutely nothing to do, almost died of ennui, and became a confirmed misanthrope.
Books are well written, or badly written.
He felt safe now.
This marriage is quite right.
You have done enough evil in your life.
There is no mystery in any of them.
I like him much better than the Frenchman you used to have.
She grumbled at his unpunctuality, as he entered.
He hoisted the Union Jack on the pinnacles of thought.
Why did he get in front of the guns?
See paragraph 1.C below.
You may fancy yourself safe and think yourself strong.
His virtues are not real to him.
She is all the great heroines of the world in one. She is more than an individual.
You may know terror yourself some day.
I want to make Romeo jealous.
He was not a schoolboy or a girl.
Dorian, you don't know what is said about you.
Man is many things, but he is not rational.
Yes; it was an interesting background.
Perhaps he might refuse to come.
Then he began ringing the bell.
I wish you could come to the theatre to-night.
He seemed broken with shame and sorrow.
In the grass, white daisies were tremulous. After a pause, Lord Henry pulled out his watch.
It will be a great pity, for it will alter you.
He felt that the idea was monstrous.
Cry out against Heaven because the daughter of Brabantio died.
Had it hit the mark?
How ghastly the mere memory of the scene!
But I wasn't quite sure.
I feel that I should not tell you all this, but I can't help it.
The pulse of joy that beats in us at twenty becomes sluggish.
You ask me about Henry Ashton and young Perth.
It made him a more interesting study.
I wish you would tell me your secret.
Without your art, you are nothing.
don't think of that.
I have not got one who is a fool.
The screen had not been set back, and a blank space was visible on the wall.
He clutched at it madly.
Gradually white fingers creep through the curtains, and they appear to tremble.
She was transfigured with joy.
Don't spoil him.
No one can, except sentimentalists.
I cannot repeat an emotion.
When he saw it he drew back, and his cheeks flushed for a moment with pleasure.
I am only ten years older than you are, and I am wrinkled, and worn, and yellow.
As for the aged, I always contradict the aged.
When a man says that one knows that life has exhausted him.
He wanted to be where no one would know who he was.
The morse bore a seraph's head in gold-thread raised work.
It is so tedious a subject that one would have to talk seriously about it.
His great wealth was a certain element of security.
Yet, after all, what did it matter to him?
He remembered with what callousness he had watched her.
I can't afford orchids, but I spare no expense in foreigners.
There is a soul in each one of us.
But I can't help detesting my relations.
They retain their egotism, and add to it many other egos.
I have new passions, new thoughts, new ideas.
He knows nothing about it.
But I beg of you to do this.
I am nothing of the kind.
Perhaps it was.
As the minutes went by he became horribly agitated.
I will work so hard and try to improve.
The excitement, such as it was, over Basil Hallward's disappearance would soon pass away.
Conscience is the trade-name of the firm.
And yet the thing would still live on.
She could still be his wife.
The only way to get rid of a temptation is to yield to it.
You forget that.
Victor might have read it.
But then in the Church they don't think.
Thought and language are to the artist instruments of an art.
How different it was with material things!
It posed the lad, made him more perfect, as it were.
Nothing is serious nowadays.
Why inquire too closely into it? For there would be a real pleasure in watching it.
One should absorb the colour of life, but one should never remember its details.
She has entirely altered.
He was terribly excited. Lord Henry watched him with a subtle sense of pleasure.
Don't look so sad.
You don't know everything about me.
I was only happy when I was with you.
He put on his fur coat and hat and went out into the hall.
James's languidly, and looked through it.
It would kill this monstrous soul-life, and without its hideous warnings, he would be at peace.
He was shivering with a kind of ague.
Lord Henry had told him that, and Lord Henry knew what women were.
They waited for that.
Surely his wish had not been fulfilled?
It would kill the past, and when that was dead, he would be free.
It looked the loveliest of little live things.
Harry, what shall I do?
Your voice and the voice of Sibyl Vane are two things that I shall never forget.
Her prince, Prince Charming, was with her.
As it is, they are brought to you.
If he had lived, he would have made provision for us.
Even things that are true can be proved.
What a romance it had all been!
It was twenty minutes to two. He sat down and began to think.
He is a most hospitable creature.
The Americans are an extremely interesting people.
But the bravest man amongst us is afraid of himself.
They paint in order to try and look young.
No; there was no further change in the picture.
But the staginess of her acting was unbearable, and grew worse as she went on.
The lamp cast fantastic shadows on the wall and staircase.
Men who talked grossly became silent when Dorian Gray entered the room.
Her clever tongue gets on one's nerves.
Look at the successful men in any of the learned professions. How perfectly hideous they are!
I shall go home.
He was tired of hearing his own name now.
Surely a painted canvas could not alter?
There was something about him, Harry, that amused me.
She came across to him, and with her little fingers stroked his hair.
Our weakest motives were those of whose nature we were conscious.
He brought his daughter back with him, I was told, and she never spoke to him again.
Through vanity he had spared her.
It had lost an ideal.
Perhaps some night he might find him creeping upstairs and trying to force the door of the room.
It is the feet of clay that make the gold of the image precious.
I never quarrel with actions.
She is quite devoted to you. And I don't think it really matters about your not being there.
Don't stir, and don't look at me like that.
And just answer me one question.
The things one feels absolutely certain about are never true.
Then you will know what it is.
But you were simple, natural, and affectionate then.
What had this man's legacy been?
It seemed to him that as the man left the room his eyes wandered in the direction of the screen.
I have not the slightest fear of the result.
Why is it that so many gentlemen in London will neither go to your house or invite you to theirs?
She made no answer.
The consciousness of being hunted, snared, tracked down, had begun to dominate him.
But we will not talk again of what has happened.
He glanced wildly around.
Harry, I do love her.
It was not a new world, but rather another chaos, that it created in us.
Sibyl was playing Rosalind. Of course, the scenery was dreadful and the Orlando absurd.
He looked at Dorian Gray in absolute amazement.
When the clock struck six, he got up and went to the door.
For the canons of good society are, or should be, the same as the canons of art.
For nearly twenty minutes, neither of the men spoke.
I dare say he fell into the Seine off an omnibus and that the conductor hushed up the scandal.
A look of pain came across him, and he flung the rich pall over the picture.
Dorian, you mustn't let this thing get on your nerves.