They are dead, and but one feeling in such a solitude can persuade me to preserve my life.
I was partly urged by curiosity, and compassion confirmed my resolution.
What did he there?
I must absent myself from all I loved while thus employed.
Guided by a slight clue, I followed the windings of the Rhone, but vainly.
She was not her child, but the daughter of a Milanese nobleman.
I had not despaired, nor had I yet conceived the idea of returning if set free.
Despair! Who dared talk of that?
Henry saw this, and had removed all my apparatus from my view.
I was now free.
The field of ice is almost a league in width, but I spent nearly two hours in crossing it.
I discovered more distinctly the black sides of Jura, and the bright summit of Mont Blanc.
I entered it and approached the tomb which marked their graves.
An old man sat in it, near a fire, over which he was preparing his breakfast.
had collected his forces.
But you have a husband and lovely children; you may be happy.
The opposite mountain is a bare perpendicular rock.
The professor stared.
The wet wood which I had placed near the heat dried and itself became inflamed.
He has frequently conversed with me on mine, which I have communicated to him without disguise.
But let us change the subject.
He still remained to me.
This idea made me shudder and recalled me to action.
Why did I live?
Oh, Frankenstein!
What were rain and storm to me?
But I will not be tempted to set myself in opposition to thee.
I recollected my threat and resolved that it should be accomplished.
But until then, I conjure you, do not mention or allude to it.
[The moon] I gazed with a kind of wonder.
'Who is there?' said the old man.
It was a lovely sight, even to me, poor wretch who had never beheld aught beautiful before.
I thought of Switzerland; it was far different from this desolate and appalling landscape.
You and your family are the friends whom I seek.
My father's age rendered him extremely averse to delay.
Be men, or be more than men.
I have no ambition to lose my life on the post-road between St.
Now I am twenty-eight and am in reality more illiterate than many schoolboys of fifteen.
I could hardly sustain the multitude of feelings that crowded into my mind.
At that moment I heard the steps of my younger protectors.
This passion is detrimental to me, for you do not reflect that you are the cause of its excess.
I believed in her innocence; I knew it.
It was a divine spring, and the season contributed greatly to my convalescence.
Generous and self-devoted being!
My sensations had by this time become distinct, and my mind received every day additional ideas.
Nearly all the individual works in the collection are in the public domain in the United States.
How can you, who long for the love and sympathy of man, persevere in this exile?
You wish to eat me and tear me to pieces.
This picture is gone, and was doubtless the temptation which urged the murderer to the deed.
What do these sounds portend?
At length the high white steeple of the town met my eyes.
She appeared of a different stock.
He pointed out to me the shifting colours of the landscape and the appearances of the sky.
In Britain only could he further the execution of his plan.
I shall ascend my funeral pile triumphantly and exult in the agony of the torturing flames.
I was nourished with high thoughts of honour and devotion.
He was an uncouth man, but deeply imbued in the secrets of his science.
Yet why were these gentle beings unhappy?
How sweet is the affection of others to such a wretch as I am!
Whether he had died or still lingered in the dungeons of Austria was not known.
When she again lived, it was only to weep and sigh.
My own agitation and anguish was extreme during the whole trial.
But I was baffled in every attempt I made for this purpose.
Am I to be thought the only criminal, when all humankind sinned against me?
I must arise and examine. Good night, my sister. Great God!
When we visited it the next morning, we found the tree shattered in a singular manner.
I felt this delay very bitterly; for I longed to see my native town and my beloved friends.
The plot of Felix was quickly discovered, and De Lacey and Agatha were thrown into prison.
The evening was warm and serene, and we prolonged our walk farther than usual.
The apparition was soon explained.
Ah, dear sister, how can I answer this question?
The course of the Rhine below Mainz becomes much more picturesque.
I saw a change in her also.
I am miserable, and they shall share my wretchedness.
These motives urged me to comply with his demand.
I have dwelt many months in the heaths of England and among the deserts of Scotland.
I had visited it frequently during my boyhood.
I passed three days in these rambles and at length discovered the open country.
Did the murderer place it there?
The crime had its source in her; be hers the punishment!
They were fond of the sweet orphan.
Who can describe their horror and consternation on beholding me?
It was my temper to avoid a crowd and to attach myself fervently to a few.
I welcomed my friend, therefore, in the most cordial manner, and we walked towards my college.
It was here that Charles I.
She followed, and they disappeared.
I have lost my hopes of utility and glory; I have lost my friend.
I can, even now, remember the hour from which I dedicated myself to this great enterprise.
I avoided explanation and maintained a continual silence concerning the wretch I had created.
How miraculous did this appear!
Whence did I come?
Beloved and venerable parent!
Oh, that some encouraging voice would answer in the affirmative!
Yet that is over now: Clerval writes that indeed you are getting better.
It was surely that I might fulfil my destiny, which is now drawing to a close.
I have longed for a friend; I have sought one who would sympathise with and love me.
Why do you not hate Felix, who drove his friend from his door with contumely?
And then of what use would be pursuit?
I love my cousin tenderly and sincerely.
My promise fulfilled, the monster would depart for ever.
Nay, Henry might stand between me and the intrusion of my foe.
I had certainly acted imprudently.
You may give up your purpose, but mine is assigned to me by Heaven, and I dare not.
Here also we made some acquaintances, who almost contrived to cheat me into happiness.
Increase of knowledge only discovered to me more clearly what a wretched outcast I was.
how do you welcome your wanderer?
Her ugly sister, Manon, married M.
They had not been long married, and their eldest child was but just born.
I need not say that we were strangers to any species of disunion or dispute.
You may deem me romantic, my dear sister, but I bitterly feel the want of a friend.
I gazed on the picture of my mother, which stood over the mantel-piece.
This, briefly, is his story.
Here, I thought, is one of those whose joy-imparting smiles are bestowed on all but me.
I must not be trifled with, and I demand an answer.
The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification number is 64-6221541.
Kirwin regarded me with a troubled countenance.
One paternal kind precaution he had taken to ensure my having a companion.
The poor woman was very vacillating in her repentance.
How often did I imprecate curses on the cause of my being!
The figure passed me quickly, and I lost it in the gloom.
Do you understand this feeling?
Am I not shunned and hated by all mankind?
When I looked around I saw and heard of none like me.
I was formed for peaceful happiness.
It clings to the mind when it has once seized on it like a lichen on the rock.
At length the thought of you crossed my mind.
No father could claim the gratitude of his child so completely as I should deserve theirs.
I obtained from my father a respite of some weeks.
I will be cool, persevering, and prudent. But success shall crown my endeavours.
In these last moments I feel the sincerest gratitude towards those who think of me with kindness.
And yet you are still unhappy and still avoid our society.
Would you also create for yourself and the world a demoniacal enemy?
I will melt the stony hearts of your enemies by my tears and prayers.
I, who irretrievably destroyed thee by destroying all thou lovedst.
Did you not call this a glorious expedition?
What must have been his feelings?
Was there no injustice in this?
If she is condemned, I never shall know joy more.
None but those who have experienced them can conceive of the enticements of science.
This was my duty, but there was another still paramount to that.
They penetrate into the recesses of nature and show how she works in her hiding-places.
Evil thenceforth became my good.
You will find near this place, if you follow not too tardily, a dead hare; eat and be refreshed.
You have burdened your memory with exploded systems and useless names.
Yet mine shall not be the submission of abject slavery.
Yet when she died!
Do you dare to break your promise?
What was my destination?
Is this gentle and lovely being lost for ever?
What does it avail that I now ask thee to pardon me?
Should she indeed awake, and see me, and curse me, and denounce the murderer?
My person was hideous and my stature gigantic.
I love Elizabeth and look forward to our union with delight.
She wept with me and for me.
Our situation was somewhat dangerous, especially as we were compassed round by a very thick fog.
I quickly collected some branches, but they were wet and would not burn.
These amiable people to whom I go have never seen me and know little of me.
What could I do?
Her mother was a German and had died on giving her birth.
I could have torn him limb from limb, as the lion rends the antelope.
Farewell, Walton!
A small possession on the shores of Como belonged to her.
Oh, praise the eternal justice of man!
She was a Roman Catholic; and I believe her confessor confirmed the idea which she had conceived.
When I reflected on his crimes and malice, my hatred and revenge burst all bounds of moderation.
I looked upon them as superior beings who would be the arbiters of my future destiny.
Nothing in human shape could have destroyed the fair child.
My tears flow; my mind is overshadowed by a cloud of disappointment.
How can I see so noble a creature destroyed by misery without feeling the most poignant grief?
He was the murderer!
Many things I read surpassed my understanding and experience.
Forgive me for having for one moment distrusted you. Why did you confess?
Alas! Life is obstinate and clings closest where it is most hated.
Its hills are covered with vines, and its cottages are scattered thickly in the plains.
The forms of the beloved dead flit before me, and I hasten to their arms.
My cheek had grown pale with study, and my person had become emaciated with confinement.
And what was I?
If she had gone near the spot where his body lay, it was without her knowledge.
Have I not suffered enough, that you seek to increase my misery?
It is a scene terrifically desolate.
Wretched devil!
I will keep no terms with my enemies.
He entreated me to write often.
She fell, however, into good hands.
Yet I am certainly unjust.
I lay on the deck looking at the stars and listening to the dashing of the waves.
I, their eldest child, was born at Naples, and as an infant accompanied them in their rambles.
During all that period she appeared to me the most amiable and benevolent of human creatures.
Shall I not then hate them who abhor me?
I dared not think that they would turn them from me with disdain and horror.
Oh, not abhorred!
But busy, uninteresting, joyous faces brought back despair to my heart.
You perhaps will find some means to justify my poor guiltless Justine.
I was encompassed by a cloud which no beneficial influence could penetrate.
Does it now only exist in my memory?
On the same day I paid M.
He endeavours to fill me with hope and talks as if life were a possession which he valued.
It was your journal of the four months that preceded my creation.
You doubtless recollect these papers.
I was benevolent and good; misery made me a fiend.
No distinct ideas occupied my mind; all was confused.
I entreat you not to reason with me any more.
Snow fell, and the waters were hardened, but I rested not.
He made, at that moment, a solemn vow to deliver him and then looked around for the means.
I started up and beheld a radiant form rise from among the trees.
Farewell, Frankenstein!
Why did they preserve so miserable and detested a life?
You shall not die! You, my playfellow, my companion, my sister, perish on the scaffold! No!
Henry deeply felt the misfortune of being debarred from a liberal education.
This expedition has been the favourite dream of my early years.
I wept like a child.
I expect to see you looking even more ill than when you quitted Geneva.
I read it, as I had read the other volumes which had fallen into my hands, as a true history.
With his permission my mother prevailed on her rustic guardians to yield their charge to her.
She indeed gained the resignation she desired.
They entered, and their leader addressed me.
Waldman I found a true friend.
Her voice was musical but unlike that of either of my friends.
A frightful selfishness hurried me on, while my heart was poisoned with remorse.
A meeting, which he anticipated with such joy, so strangely turned to bitterness.
From my infancy I was imbued with high hopes and a lofty ambition; but how am I sunk!
The news reached Felix and roused him from his dream of pleasure.
By degrees, after the morning's dawn, sleep came.
Surprise, horror, and misery were strongly expressed.
I wish you had come three months ago, and then you would have found us all joyous and delighted.
Copyright laws in most countries are in a constant state of change.
Nor was her residence at her mother's house of a nature to restore her gaiety.
He asked me the history of my earlier years.
I could now almost fancy myself among the Swiss mountains.
The light of that conflagration will fade away; my ashes will be swept into the sea by the winds.
Alas, how great was the contrast between us!
We may not part until you have promised to comply with my requisition.
That hour passed, the sun mounted high in the heavens, but the cottagers did not appear.
who is safe, if she be convicted of crime?
Yet why do I say this?
Prepare to hear of occurrences which are usually deemed marvellous.
His appearance, different from any I had ever before seen, and his flight somewhat surprised me.
I examined the materials of the fire, and to my joy found it to be composed of wood.
He was also pursuing an object he had long had in view.
See paragraph 1.E below. 1.C.
He was tried and condemned to death.
Often, when most miserable, I sank to repose, and my dreams lulled me even to rapture.
Contact the Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below. 1.F. 1.F.1.
Was man, indeed, at once so powerful, so virtuous and magnificent, yet so vicious and base?
My ardour was indeed the astonishment of the students, and my proficiency that of the masters.
Felix had procured passports in the name of his father, sister, and himself.
I bent over her and placed the portrait securely in one of the folds of her dress.
Think you that the groans of Clerval were music to my ears?
Krempe, professor of natural philosophy.
Ay, stare if you please; but it is nevertheless true.
To die so miserably; to feel the murderer's grasp!
My strength was gone.
I tried, therefore, to dress my food in the same manner, placing it on the live embers.
For this was it a glorious, for this was it an honourable undertaking.
Yes; I cannot withstand their demands.
I had never yet seen a being resembling me or who claimed any intercourse with me.
I burned with rage to pursue the murderer of my peace and precipitate him into the ocean.
A serene sky and verdant fields filled me with ecstasy.
We crossed the ice, therefore, and ascended the opposite rock.
Agatha fainted, and Safie, unable to attend to her friend, rushed out of the cottage.
Deprived of this respite, I should have sunk under my hardships.
I often referred the several situations, as their similarity struck me, to my own.
The tale was quickly told, but it awakened various trains of reflection.
What agonising fondness did I feel for them!
The gentle words of Agatha and the animated smiles of the charming Arabian were not for me.
What may not be expected in a country of eternal light?
How much more a murdered that could destroy radiant innocence!
His limbs were nearly frozen, and his body dreadfully emaciated by fatigue and suffering.
The four others were dark-eyed, hardy little vagrants; this child was thin and very fair.
Be assured that for my own sake, as well as yours, I will not rashly encounter danger.
The huts, the neater cottages, and stately houses engaged my admiration by turns.
A mist covered both that and the surrounding mountains.
But even human sympathies were not sufficient to satisfy his eager mind.
For some time I sat upon the rock that overlooks the sea of ice.
Could I behold this and live?
Professor Krempe often asked me, with a sly smile, how Cornelius Agrippa went on, whilst M.
Fortunately I had money with me.
My mother had much desired to have a daughter, but I continued their single offspring.
I took their word for all that they averred, and I became their disciple.
He threatened excommunication and hell fire in my last moments if I continued obdurate.
I am well acquainted with the accused.
But where was mine?
Waldman entered shortly after.
All praises bestowed on her I received as made to a possession of my own.
Kirwin had shown me extreme kindness.
I could not doubt it.
Again do I vow vengeance; again do I devote thee, miserable fiend, to torture and death.
I never saw a man in so wretched a condition.
He is now sixteen and full of activity and spirit.
The most learned philosopher knew little more.
Why do you not execrate the rustic who sought to destroy the saviour of his child?
Or rather, stay, that I may trample you to dust!
If he were vanquished, I should be a free man.
Have you drunk also of the intoxicating draught?
I sickened as I read.
The meal was quickly dispatched.
Yet I seek not a fellow feeling in my misery. No sympathy may I ever find.
Waldman a visit.
But that would be a cruel kindness, and I dare not do it.
Every moment I feared to meet my persecutor.
Waldman expressed the most heartfelt exultation in my progress.
She joined the hands of Elizabeth and myself.
Did they really express pain?
The surgeon gave him a composing draught and ordered us to leave him undisturbed.
Felix visited the grate at night and made known to the prisoner his intentions in his favour.
The gates were open, and I hastened to my father's house.
No mortal could support the horror of that countenance.
My father's health was deeply shaken by the horror of the recent events.
Still thou canst listen to me and grant me thy compassion.
I took it; it was a portrait of a most lovely woman.
I ardently desired the acquisition of knowledge.
But I must finish.
Light, feeling, and sense will pass away; and in this condition must I find my happiness.
You hate me, but your abhorrence cannot equal that with which I regard myself.
The weight upon my spirit was sensibly lightened as I plunged yet deeper in the ravine of Arve.
I often refused to accompany him, alleging another engagement, that I might remain alone.
Your summits are clear; the sky and lake are blue and placid.
Krempe had given me concerning the lectures.
This idea was torture to him.
I, not in deed, but in effect, was the true murderer.
But I was perfectly unacquainted with towns and large assemblages of men.
For my own part I was not sorry.
The spirit of elder days found a dwelling here, and we delighted to trace its footsteps.
My protectors had departed and had broken the only link that held me to the world.
My companion must be of the same species and have the same defects.
At these moments I took refuge in the most perfect solitude.
He soon reached the summit, and disappeared. I remained motionless.
unless a copyright notice is included.
I eagerly seized the prize and returned with it to my hovel.
Let your compassion be moved, and do not disdain me.
You are an ogre.
My letter was calm and affectionate.
I love you very tenderly.
This change was particularly agreeable to me.
It appeared to be a handsome young man, about five and twenty years of age.
My country, my beloved country!
You would not if you saw him.
During the whole of this wretched mockery of justice I suffered living torture.
Kirwin charged himself with every care of collecting witnesses and arranging my defence.
I shall no longer see the sun or stars or feel the winds play on my cheeks.
My poor cousin, how much you must have suffered!
The sun does not more certainly shine in the heavens than that which I now affirm is true.
I trembled violently, apprehending some dreadful misfortune.
You may render me the most miserable of men, but you shall never make me base in my own eyes.
But she was innocent.
This part of the Rhine, indeed, presents a singularly variegated landscape.
His limbs were in proportion, and I had selected his features as beautiful.
one only consolation have we; his friends mourn and weep, but he is at rest.
Unfeeling, heartless creator!
He meant to please, and he tormented me.
dearest blessed child!
Since you left us, but one change has taken place in our little household.
Their benevolent disposition often made them enter the cottages of the poor.
But I felt that I had no right to share their intercourse.
But now crime has degraded me beneath the meanest animal.
Poor, poor girl, is she the accused?
To me the idea of an immediate union with my Elizabeth was one of horror and dismay.
Never did I behold a vision so horrible as his face, of such loathsome yet appalling hideousness.
Clerval spent the last evening with us.
I rely on her innocence as certainly as I do upon my own.
Do you share my madness?
What did their tears imply?
Madame Moritz, her mother, was a widow with four children, of whom Justine was the third.
You may possibly say, What can Elizabeth have to explain?
They looked at one another and were unable to reply.
I then paused, and a cold shivering came over me.
Yet I would die to make her happy.
I saw no cause for their unhappiness, but I was deeply affected by it.
Yet some feelings, unallied to the dross of human nature, beat even in these rugged bosoms.
On that night he had determined to consummate his crimes by my death.
He composed heroic songs and began to write many a tale of enchantment and knightly adventure.
Life, although it may only be an accumulation of anguish, is dear to me, and I will defend it.
Dear Victor, banish these dark passions.
I know not; I lost sensation, and chains and darkness were the only objects that pressed upon me.
I remained for several years their only child.
My evil passions will have fled, for I shall meet with sympathy!
I will not hear you.
Tell me, dearest Victor.
Listen to me, Frankenstein.
And if these were my sensations, who can describe those of Henry?
In that hour I should die and at once satisfy and extinguish his malice.
Why am I to give an account of myself?
O blessed sleep!
If I fail, you will see me again soon, or never. Farewell, my dear, excellent Margaret.
Soon these burning miseries will be extinct.
I remembered Adam's supplication to his Creator.
Shall I create another like yourself, whose joint wickedness might desolate the world.
Frankenstein, who was dozing, awoke and asked the cause of the tumult.
Are you to be happy while I grovel in the intensity of my wretchedness?
Do you remember on what occasion Justine Moritz entered our family?
You, perhaps, regard her as your sister, without any wish that she might become your wife.
Still I would penetrate their misty veil and seek them in their cloudy retreats.
Be steady to your purposes and firm as a rock.
I thought I saw Elizabeth, in the bloom of health, walking in the streets of Ingolstadt.
I am too ardent in execution and too impatient of difficulties.
Beware, for I am fearless and therefore powerful.
He assisted her to dismount, and dismissing her guide, conducted her into the cottage.
Saville, England. St.
He held up the curtain of the bed; and his eyes, if eyes they may be called, were fixed on me.
My father and Ernest yet lived, but the former sunk under the tidings that I bore.
How can I describe my sensations on beholding it?
Nay, then I was not miserable.
There he lies, white and cold in death.
Krempe had exhibited.
Can any man be to me as Clerval was, or any woman another Elizabeth?
How unlike it was to the blue seasons of the south!
My wife and my sister will never recover from their horror.
No guilt, no mischief, no malignity, no misery, can be found comparable to mine.
I read merely to understand their meaning, and they well repaid my labours.
All of soul-inspiriting fled with sleep, and dark melancholy clouded every thought.
The storm, as is often the case in Switzerland, appeared at once in various parts of the heavens.
Kirwin came in and insisted that my strength should not be exhausted by too much exertion.
Once my fancy was soothed with dreams of virtue, of fame, and of enjoyment.
I traversed the streets without any clear conception of where I was or what I was doing.
I inquired of the inhabitants concerning the fiend and gained accurate information.
On her deathbed the fortitude and benignity of this best of women did not desert her.
Remember the friends around you, who centre all their hopes in you.
But he had promised to follow me wherever I might go, and would he not accompany me to England?
As the trial had proceeded, her countenance had altered.
Do not return to your families with the stigma of disgrace marked on your brows.
Some miracle might have produced it, yet the stages of the discovery were distinct and probable.
Know that, one by one, my friends were snatched away; I was left desolate.
Everywhere I see bliss, from which I alone am irrevocably excluded.
The disquisitions upon death and suicide were calculated to fill me with wonder.
Poor little fellow!
how can that be?
I felt as if I had committed some great crime, the consciousness of which haunted me.
As I spoke, a dark gloom spread over my listener's countenance.
Fit habitation for gods, which, so short a time before, was bleak, damp, and unwholesome.
I know, I feel she was innocent; you are of the same opinion, and that confirms me. Alas!
Why am I here to relate the destruction of the best hope and the purest creature on earth?
He was for ever busy, and the only check to his enjoyments was my sorrowful and dejected mind.
He excites at once my admiration and my pity to an astonishing degree.
You will not hear of my destruction, and you will anxiously await my return.
If you feel thus, we shall assuredly be happy, however present events may cast a gloom over us.
Elizabeth, my love, you must supply my place to my younger children.
These events have affected me, God knows how deeply; but I am not so wretched as you are.
But my heart sank within me as with bitter sickness, and I refrained.
Miserable himself that he may render no other wretched, he ought to die.
My hand was already on the lock of the door before I recollected myself.
Their icy and glittering peaks shone in the sunlight over the clouds.
This was indeed a godlike science, and I ardently desired to become acquainted with it.
God raises my weakness and gives me courage to endure the worst.
I had not a moment to lose, but seizing the hand of the old man, I cried, 'Now is the time!
Justine started.
When shown the body, she fell into violent hysterics and kept her bed for several days.
The snows descended on my head, and I saw the print of his huge step on the white plain.
How strange, I thought, that the same cause should produce such opposite effects!
Yet from whom has not that rude hand rent away some dear connection?
I remained in a recess of the rock, gazing on this wonderful and stupendous scene.
The river descends rapidly and winds between hills, not high, but steep, and of beautiful forms.
It came from the room into which Elizabeth had retired.
Nay, these are virtuous and immaculate beings!
At length he opened his eyes; he breathed with difficulty and was unable to speak.
We called each other familiarly by the name of cousin.
Shall I respect man when he condemns me?
In the morning I went to the court; my lips and throat were parched.
I was new to sorrow, but it did not the less alarm me.
But do not mourn, dear girl.
The tortures of hell are too mild a vengeance for thy crimes.
The monster continued to utter wild and incoherent self-reproaches.
What can I say that will enable you to understand the depth of my sorrow?
The completion of my demoniacal design became an insatiable passion.
This book had a far different effect upon me from the Sorrows of Werter.
But it is even so; the fallen angel becomes a malignant devil.
He became the victim of its weakness.
In the university whither I was going I must form my own friends and be my own protector.
I wait but for one event, and then I shall repose in peace.
We landed, and proceeded to Paris.
I was accordingly conducted, by the magistrate and several other persons, to the inn.
I am malicious because I am miserable.
I paused to collect myself and then entered the chamber.
How would such a friend repair the faults of your poor brother!
It was not thus with Felix.
This promise drew from me the warmest thanks.
I felt emotions of gentleness and pleasure, that had long appeared dead, revive within me.
My education was neglected, yet I was passionately fond of reading.
This was a new sight to me, and I examined the structure with great curiosity.
We accordingly rested on a seat until they should return.
A mummy again endued with animation could not be so hideous as that wretch.
Had my eyes deceived me?
Even now I cannot recollect without passion my reveries while the work was incomplete.
He wished me to seek amusement in society.
I confess that I felt a few sensations of terror.
I will proclaim, I will prove your innocence.
All that I should express would be inadequate and feeble.
She was very earnest to see the corpse.
If I succeed, many, many months, perhaps years, will pass before you and I may meet.
For while I destroyed his hopes, I did not satisfy my own desires.
But as the ensuing week commenced, I thought of the information which M.
Remorse extinguished every hope.
Thus situated, my only resource was to drive before the wind.
I was bewildered, in a cloud of wonder and horror.
what a scene has just taken place!
Happy, happy earth!
Below this picture was a miniature of William; and my tears flowed when I looked upon it.
What a miserable night I passed!
He loved enterprise, hardship, and even danger for its own sake.
The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern what you can do with this work.
Yet it is terrible to reflect that the lives of all these men are endangered through me.
I inquired the way to the inn, but no one replied.
She died on the first approach of cold weather, at the beginning of this last winter.
To examine the causes of life, we must first have recourse to death.
I had cast off all feeling, subdued all anguish, to riot in the excess of my despair.
My creator, make me happy; let me feel gratitude towards you for one benefit!
I dare not expect such success, yet I cannot bear to look on the reverse of the picture.
His soul is as hellish as his form, full of treachery and fiend-like malice.
I attempted to speak, but the words died away on my lips.
I desire the company of a man who could sympathise with me, whose eyes would reply to mine.
Nothing is so painful to the human mind as a great and sudden change.
I read of men concerned in public affairs, governing or massacring their species.
This professor was very unlike his colleague.
The mildness of my nature had fled, and all within me was turned to gall and bitterness.
Are you, then, so easily turned from your design?
Who could arrest a creature capable of scaling the overhanging sides of Mont Salêve?
Beloved friend!
'Hateful day when I received life!' I exclaimed in agony.
Everything was made to yield to her wishes and her convenience.
I thank you and accept your generous offer.
I had feelings of affection, and they were requited by detestation and scorn. Man!
But I paused when I reflected on the story that I had to tell.
My abhorrence of this fiend cannot be conceived.
The thatch had fallen in, the walls were unplastered, and the door was off its hinges.
In spite of my malignity, it softened and attracted me.
I hoped to induce you to grant me a boat with which I could pursue my enemy.
But when he entered, misery and despair alone welcomed him.
And how, Victor, can I relate our misfortune?
I walked with a quick pace, and we soon arrived at my college.
You purpose to kill me.
My wanderings were directed towards the valley of Chamounix.
If I should be engaged, I will at least make notes.
my own beautiful lake!
But it was all a dream; no Eve soothed my sorrows nor shared my thoughts; I was alone.
She herself wept as Elizabeth spoke, but she did not answer.
I see him now, excellent and venerable old man!
Despair had indeed almost secured her prey, and I should soon have sunk beneath this misery.
This expectation will now be the consolation of your father.
They spurn and hate me.
Henry Clerval was the son of a merchant of Geneva.
The poor that stopped at their door were never driven away.
Do not think that I shall be slow to perform this sacrifice.
In this house I chanced to find a volume of the works of Cornelius Agrippa.
The very winds whispered in soothing accents, and maternal Nature bade me weep no more.
Felix seemed peculiarly happy and with smiles of delight welcomed his Arabian.
Our lives will not be happy, but they will be harmless and free from the misery I now feel.
How pleased you would be to remark the improvement of our Ernest!
The young man and his companion often went apart and appeared to weep.
I will watch with the wiliness of a snake, that I may sting with its venom.
It is well for the unfortunate to be resigned, but for the guilty there is no peace.
Soon after, I entered the valley of Chamounix.
Have we lost the power of rendering you happy?
It was a monotonous yet ever-changing scene.
You will find a happy, cheerful home and friends who love you dearly.
She devoted herself to those whom she had been taught to call her uncle and cousins.
I was pained at this and sat still watching the operation of the fire.
Duvillard, the rich banker, last autumn.
He was deeply read in books of chivalry and romance.
I thought of the occurrences of the day.
There can be no community between you and me; we are enemies.
What did this mean?
Presently a breeze dissipated the cloud, and I descended upon the glacier.
From my earliest remembrance I had been as I then was in height and proportion.
The servants were gone to a neighbouring fair.
I gnashed my teeth and ground them together, uttering a groan that came from my inmost soul.
We visited the tomb of the illustrious Hampden and the field on which that patriot fell.
These bleak skies I hail, for they are kinder to me than your fellow beings.
I pitied Frankenstein; my pity amounted to horror; I abhorred myself.
My courage and my resolution is firm; but my hopes fluctuate, and my spirits are often depressed.
Cursed be the day, abhorred devil, in which you first saw light!
But your direction was northwards.
It was not splintered by the shock, but entirely reduced to thin ribbons of wood.
But I had suffered him to depart, and he had directed his course towards the mainland.
Do not laugh in that manner.
I entreat you to hear me before you give vent to your hatred on my devoted head.
His property was confiscated; his child became an orphan and a beggar.
The desert mountains and dreary glaciers are my refuge.
A servant in Geneva does not mean the same thing as a servant in France and England.
But here also I am checked.
I do not intend to sail until the month of June; and when shall I return?
When reason returned, she would remonstrate and endeavour to inspire me with resignation.
She did not appear to understand him, but smiled.
'Let me go,' he cried; 'monster!
When he smiles, two little dimples appear on each cheek, which are rosy with health.
But these cares of Clerval were made of no avail when I visited the professors.
And why should I describe a sorrow which all have felt, and must feel?
How kind, how very kind!
The image of Clerval was for ever before me, ghastly and murdered.
Inflamed by pain, I vowed eternal hatred and vengeance to all mankind.
However, it was hardly morning, and I might reasonably hope to arrive by night.
Cornelius Agrippa!
But that could not be.
Fiend that thou art!
Justine died, she rested, and I was alive.
During all that time Henry was my only nurse.
He might remain in Switzerland and wreak his vengeance on my relatives.
It is midnight; the breeze blows fairly, and the watch on deck scarcely stir.
The mere presence of the idea was an irresistible proof of the fact.
Years will pass, and you will have visitings of despair and yet be tortured by hope.
What a divine day!
My passionate and indignant appeals were lost upon them.
Could he be (I shuddered at the conception) the murderer of my brother?
The task of his destruction was mine, but I have failed.
Why did I not then expire!
Yet could I, in justice, or even in possibility, refuse this demand?
I thanked my friend from my heart, but I did not speak.
Had I right, for my own benefit, to inflict this curse upon everlasting generations?
What could it be?
It was, indeed, a filthy process in which I was engaged.
My mule was brought to the door, and I resolved to ascend to the summit of Montanvert.
I abhorred the face of man.
I never saw any woman who excited, as Elizabeth does, my warmest admiration and affection.
You may hate, but beware!
How shall I ever repay you?
By the virtues that I once possessed, I demand this from you.
His jaws opened, and he muttered some inarticulate sounds, while a grin wrinkled his cheeks.
Save and protect me!
How ill you are!
All that had so long engaged my attention suddenly grew despicable.
See paragraph 1.C below.
More miserable than man ever was before, why did I not sink into forgetfulness and rest?
who could attempt to pursue him?
I am yet dizzy with the remembrance of it.
By the by, I mean to lecture you a little upon their account myself.
I pressed on, but in vain.
Clerval, I assure you he has outstript us all.
Why had I not followed him and closed with him in mortal strife?
The wind was high, and the waves continually threatened the safety of my little skiff.
What do you demand of your captain?
She uttered some words in a loud voice, and the youth joined her, who also expressed surprise.
Probably you do not; I will relate her history, therefore in a few words.
But I journey towards England, and I may there find consolation. I am interrupted.
For this I had deprived myself of rest and health.
The infant had been placed with these good people to nurse: they were better off then.
He was a boy of singular talent and fancy.
It was with these feelings that I began the creation of a human being.
I leave you, and in you the last of humankind whom these eyes will ever behold.
I do not think that the pursuit of knowledge is an exception to this rule.
Justine has just returned to us; and I assure you I love her tenderly.
Their happiness was not decreased by the absence of summer.
You have hope, and the world before you, and have no cause for despair.
My work is nearly complete.
It seemed to me as if nothing would or could ever be known.
Moritz, treated her very ill.
The birds sang in more cheerful notes, and the leaves began to bud forth on the trees.
Among these there was one which attracted my mother far above all the rest.
I commenced by inuring my body to hardship.
Tell me, therefore, whether you object to an immediate solemnisation of the marriage.
This also was my doing!
Finding the door open, I entered.
He was not there.
Ye weep, unhappy ones, but these are not your last tears!
You have left me no power to consider whether I am just to you or not.
The God of heaven forgive me!
Why not still proceed over the untamed yet obedient element?
She hesitated some time, but at length she formed her determination.
There is something at work in my soul which I do not understand.
